#  Biweekly



## Date and time

Sep 3, 2021 10 am CET.



## Participants
- Danielle Adonis
- Aljosa Hafner
- Marius Retegan
- Teodor Ivanoaica
- Ana Valcarce
- Antoine Padovani
- Torben Nielsen


## Agenda

1. Review of tasks and dashboard: https://github.com/orgs/pan-training/projects
2. PaNOSC data HERCULES course
3. Update on cloud resource meeting Monday
4. D1.7 status update
5. Other technical updates
6. Other ExPaNDS updates
7. Other PaNOSC updates
8. AoB



## Minutes
1. No issues reported. On track.
2. (Marius Retegan) Will need to have the HERCULES course ready by November 2021 for internal usage. No technical problems foreseen.
3. (Teodor Ivanoaica) We had a discussion in about cloud resources. We aim at having resources for a 7-day summer school (168 hours) and with 30 students towards the end of PaNOSC. AWS compute recourses of the type g4dn.xlarge EC2 could e.g. be used. 
4. (Teodor Ivanoaica) D1.7 is on track with expected due date in November. D1.8 is delayed, but almost ready by now. We plan to send it around for review soon. 
5. Alex has reported that the umbrella id is now working at ESS (with some limited functionality). Theo expects that their umbrella id set-up will be working from mid-September. They have been relying on the reverse-engineering maded by ESS. It was then suggested to make an internal course in Moodle on how-to use and set-up umbrella id for knowledge-sharing purposes.  
6. New team member Antoine. He should be granted access to Gitub, etc. 
7.  
8. Aljosa reported that CERIC has as call for funding hosting schools and course. He will circulate the relevant information. 

