
Participants:

Petra, Alexandre, Kareem (ESS), Oliver Knoderl, Guiseppe

Agenda

Status on action items from last meeting


Minutes

Information from Petra to the attendees that there are around 10 registrants so far for the summer school.

DST (DMSC) will discuss resource requirements sent earlier by Marius, to ensure readiness and availability of resources. A copy of the required resources email sent by Marius will be forwarded to Guisseppe by Kareem ( as requested by Guiseppe), to find out if extra resources can be allocated from his side.

Oliver informs that there was a discussion on the e-learning platform during the face2face meeting in Prague

Summer school action list:  For the technical solutions we will not run compute via AWS, but instead use plan B. Petra will remind Peter W to upload to GitHub so Marius can test. 
Petra has arranged a meeeting to check that we have all info in a flow so that students actually will have the knowledge we ask of them to do proposal writing the last day of the summer school.

To follow up in the next meeting:
Are the talks for the summer school coordinated? Has Peter W uploaded Docker file to GitHub so Marius can test? Status on testing? How is the status of on-site practical planning? How many has registered? Do we need more advertisment? When can we have the scientific days time-tabled with speakers?
