# 2021-04-25 Biweekly



## Date and time

April 23, 2021 10 am CET.



## Participants

* Stella, ESS
* Kareem, ESS
* Teodor, ELI
* Torben Roland, 
* Peter, ESS
* Thomas, ESS



## Agenda

1. Tasks
1. GitHub
1. Other technical updates
1. ExPaNDS updates
* local site running hzdr 
* - same naming scheme as pan-leaning.org
* some domain issues 
* for delvierable for 2-3 months

Recruitment in process at SOLEIL




3. PaNOSC updates


5. AoN


***


## Minutes



### Tasks

- [ ] Doru setup meeting with Peter, Kareem, T.ESS, Doru, Stella, Florian - GDPR + Risks - after the technical meeting - ??? 
- [ ] Thibaud, Florian, and Teodor to review risks (everybody feel free to do the same)
    Deadline: 2 weeks
    
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. 
    Quite busy with mid term review. Answers from survey. Seems to be good approach with pan-learning + catalogue
    Stella, Doru joined FAIRsFAIR workshop on meta-data for training. Message: should be able 
    

- [x] Oliver to clone TP software to new github org - code available, multiple issues submitted.
- [ ] Peter (with Alex) to explain how to setup and run a local instance of pan-learning.org
- [ ] Guidelines on how to contribute. Use Thomas', XFEL, approach as starting point and modularize. - asignee Peter ??
- [ ] Upload Jupyter integration document to github - assignee: Peter
- [x] Illumidesk - JupyterHub - auto grading to be uploaded to GitHub - defining a tehnical support role for content providers becomes critical
- [ ] Umbrella ID issues (Kareem , Teodor)
- [ ] To be discussed about possibility o using Slack plugin to replace the chat tools. 
    Doru will have a look

- [ ] Define task to evaluate Slack plugin on test-server


- [x] Thomas to reach out to Sophie and Thibaud on ExPANDS status

### GitHub

### Other technical updates

* Temporary issue with Illumidesk-Jupyter, has now been resolved.
* Kareem mentioned issues with local keycloak <-> Umbrella ID, meeting scheduled this afternoon. Complex and long integration -> we suggest a "quickstart guide" for future users. 
* Discussion about test-server and updating Moodle to latest official release. Peter and Kareem will have a meeting on this. 

### ExPaNDS updates

### PaNOSC updates

* Change of management at ESS: 
  * Jon will become Acting Head of Neutron Scattering Systems and Thomas will become Acting Head of Data Management and Software Centre. THese changes will take effect May 15. How this will affect PaNOSC is still not certain, but ESS will continue to be committed. 
* ESRF post doc wants to contribute OASYS-course to the platform, can tick a WP5 milestone and deliverable to WP8
* There was a LENS-LEAPS meeting -> discussion about sustainablity and future collaboration on PaNOSC-ExPANDS services. 

### AoB


Guiseppe: Rely on 


