***2022-02-11***

## Participants

Teodor (ELI)
Miguel (ILL)
Giuseppe (EGI)
Oliver (HZDR)
Antoinne (SOLEIL)
Aljosa (CERIC)
Stella (ESS)
Petra (ESS)
Kareem (ESS)



# Agenda 

1. MS 8.5
4. Redesign
5. EOSC Future
5. Content in PaN-Learning.org
6. Updates on ExPaNDS and PaNOSC


# Minutes


# 2022-01-28

## 1. MS 8.5

- Alex is setting the notebooks for ESRF / CERIC & ILL / ESSup on the platform now
- The notebook from ElI is received.
- The Issue with getting XFEL notebook running due to simex errors is now fixed - we have a container based on ubuntu environment

## 2. Redesign

- Redesign is available here:  https://github.com/pan-training/training-catalogue/issues/36
- Next step is to get it up running on pan-training.eu and registered as EOSC service. Alex will initiate a test for pan-learning.org + pan-training.hzdr.de -> pan-training.eu/catalogue, etc
- The pan-learning courses are automatically inserted in the catalog
- Automatic scraping from PanOSC events and LEAPS - LENS &  ExPaNDS turned out to be too complicated
- We are waiting for an OK from ExPaNDS. This could be ready in two weeks


## 3. EOSC Future
There is still a request from Rudolf Dimper related to sustainability and Thomas R and Stella should set up a meeting with Oliver but they needd more details from Rudolf.

## 4. Content in pan-learning.org
- For Hercules we willuse notebooks submitted for MS8.
-   Miguel will get hold of videos from previous Hercules school from ILL. ILL is happy to make them public. He is waiting permission from PhD students to make them available - then they can be uploaded to training catalogue
-   Miguel awaiting response on whether Hercules videos can be used on pan-learning and be uploaded to pan-training. 
-   Nicoletta, CERIC will inform us next meeting on status from her side

- Upcoming summer school
- Stella & Thomas will draft outline for summer school
- For next meeting Everybody is asked to provide input about what they would like to see in the summer school
- The Organization of a 2 days event f2f workshop in Spring where we invite ExPaNDS members needs further planning
			
## 5. Updates on ExPaNDS and PaNOSC
In ExPaNDS we are replacing google maps with open source on Events page of pan-training
In PaNOSC the link for the Project brief delivered to EC should be added. The Annual report is in progress and the eadline rescheduled. There will be a new review advertised
