***2022-03-11***

## Participants

Teodor (ELI)
Miguel (ILL)
Aljosa (CERIC)
Kareem (ESS)
Marius (ESRF)
Petra (ESS)
Oliver
Stella (ESS)

# Agenda 

1. Training portal
2. Summer School
3. F2F meeting
4. Meeting freequency


# Minutes


# 2022-03-11

## 1. Training Portal
The training portal is almost ready. The new domain is established and everything is linked together Oliver explains. The only issue now is Umbrella â€“ this has been discussed also in wp6 and there will be a workshop on the 24th of March.

## 2. Summer School
Thomas will send the mind map.
The summer school will run in August.
How will the commitment be from the different organisations? ILL - Miguel will contribute but as the ILL org is under reorganisation it will not be major. ESRF - MArius will 
contribute. CERIC will have a meeting in this topic this afternoon. ELI - the activities will be led by Theodore and there will be a specific ELI use case. ESS  - Stella has resigned and the ESS Instrument Scientists will be engaged in the summer school.
XFEL we need to find out about.
To use OASIS containers for courses in the summer, they need to be deployed.

## 3. F2F meeting
We plan to have it in the beginning in May. It could be in Copenhagen.

## 4. Meeting frequency
keep it to every 2nd week

## 6. AOB
- Umbrella ID: Kareem thinks that the problems we have had lately has to do with the test server.
