
# 2021-04-25 Biweekly



## Date and time

April 23, 2021 10 am CET.



## Participants





## Agenda

1. Tasks & GitHub issues
1. D1.7 PaNOSC report
   * KPIs
1. Update on Task 8.x Course on Data stewardship
1. Other technical updates
1. Other ExPaNDS updates
1. Other PaNOSC updates
1. AoB



## Minutes


### Tasks & GitHub issues

- [ ] Doru setup meeting with Peter, Kareem, T.ESS, Doru, Stella, Florian - GDPR + Risks - after the technical meeting - ??? 
- [ ] Thibaud, Florian, and Teodor to review risks (everybody feel free to do the same)
    Deadline: 2 weeks
    
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. 
    Quite busy with mid term review. Answers from survey. Seems to be good approach with pan-learning + catalogue
    Stella, Doru joined FAIRsFAIR workshop on meta-data for training. Message: should be able 
    

- [ ] Peter (with Alex) to explain how to setup and run a local instance of pan-learning.org
- [ ] Guidelines on how to contribute. Use Thomas', XFEL, approach as starting point and modularize. - asignee Peter ??
- [ ] Upload Jupyter integration document to github - assignee: Peter
- [ ] Umbrella ID issues (Kareem , Teodor)
- [ ] To be discussed about possibility o using Slack plugin to replace the chat tools. 
    Doru will have a look

- [ ] Define task to evaluate Slack plugin on test-server

### D1.7 PaNOSC report

#### KPIs

### Update on Task 8.x Course on Data stewardship


### Other technical updates


### ExPaNDS updates

### PaNOSC updates


### AoB


Guiseppe: Rely on 


## Completed tasks
- [x] Oliver to clone TP software to new github org - code available, multiple issues submitted.
- [x] Thomas to reach out to Sophie and Thibaud on ExPANDS status
- [x] Illumidesk - JupyterHub - auto grading to be uploaded to GitHub - defining a tehnical support role for content providers becomes critical

