Participants:

Petra, Kareem, Andrew, Thomas R (ESS), Oliver Knoderl, Marius (ESRF), Teodor (ELI ERIC), Antoine (Soleil), Aljosa


Minutes

From Prague meeting:
Advertisement of the catalogue. Andrew will send an email to everyone
The sustainability was brought up in Prague. We need to understand if there is funding for PaN Learning. We need to understand what material we are missing in PaN learning. We will reach out to students to understand what they need in the early days of training and then try to create that content in the e-learning platform.

Summer school:
Andrew will work on the scientific part in July.
HFibeWeb - There will be remote talks on the first day on this topic.
Python training has been discussed.
Peter W has uploaded Docker file to GitHub and Marius has tested. Marius has informed ESS on what will be needed. We need to have access for the docker container. 
The user experience will be complicated if we use the suggestested ESS solution. Can we use cload resources?
Marius and Kareem will have direct contact during the coming weeks to ironing out what we can do.

Proposal writing from Aljosa for the last day will be re-sent from Andrew to collect feedback.

Information on the scientific days should be uploaded in the time-table next week. Andrew will coordinate and upload.
