

# 2021-03-26 Biweekly

## Date and time
March 26, 2021 10 am CET.

## Participants
* Stella, ESS
* Thomas, ESS
* Kareem, ESS
* Oliver, HZDR
* Marius, ESRF
* Miguel, ILL
* Thomas, ESRF
* Aljosa, CERIC
* Teodor, ELI


## Agenda
1. Tasks
1. GitHub repository
1. Other technical updates
1. ExPaNDS updates
1. PaNOSC updates
1. AoN

***

## Minutes

### Tasks

- [x] Doru to get pan-learning.org reviewed for GDPR compliance.
- [ ] Doru setup meeting with Peter, Kareem, T.ESS, Doru, Stella, 


- [ ] Thibaud, Florian, and Teodor to review risks (everybody feel free to do the same)


- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. 


see below
 
### GitHub organization

After having created a WP8 repo in the GitHub panosc organization, 
we decided to create our own GitHub organization [pan-training](https://github.com/pan-training). 
Peter has cloned the [pan-learning-django-tools](https://github.com/pan-training/pan-learning-djangotools) 
repo to that organization and Thomas has created [two projects](https://github.com/orgs/pan-training/projects) 
for now; one for training portal and one for e-learning platform. The projects are located at the top level 
organization and not in a repository. 

Thomas (ESS) has created a milestone for each task in PaNOSC WP8 and an associated issue for each deliverable and has 
generally started to populate the pan-learning.org project with issues, both technically ones and related to 
content creation. In some case people has also been assigned. 

Thomas (XFEL) has already made a pull request for converting to Python3

Some issues are pretty large and may benefit from being converted to a GitHub milestone. 

- [ ] We neeed to ensure that everybody can contribute and also create issues, etc. 


### pan-learning.org clone for testing

* Test site up running

### Other technical updates



### ExPaNDS updates
Cannot reach WP leader

- [ ] Thomas to inform Andy
- [ ] Oliver to clone TP software to new github org 

### PaNOSC updates

* TtT workshop Part 2 took place this week. Markedly reduced participation. 
   - Impression is that participants were generally happy about the workshop, but when coming back to their home institutes it's hard to find time for this kind of stuff. Maybe a bit too long. 
      - Idea: Tell course creators to contact us beforehand
      - Idea: Clear guidelines towards the end; these are the teching techniques, these are the techniques, these are the advice, these are the contacts
   - Got some useful input for further developing pan-learning.org. 
   - Demo of Illumidesk/nbgrader Jupyter implementation
      - [ ] Submit final milestone report 
* NIST has shown interest in using pan-learning for training in SANS. 
* ESS runs weekly meetings focusing on using outcomes from WP5 in WP8.


### AoB

* What can and should be embedded in pan-learning.org, e.g. in relation to videos? How should this be handled? Alternative is to upload files, but then the cap on file size becomes a limitation. Perhaps a solution is to use a commercial cloud provider to take it outside the local security constraints.  

- [ ] Peter to explain how to setup and run a local instance of pan-learning.org
- [ ] Guidelines on how to contribute. Use Thomas', XFEL, approach as starting point and modularize. 
- [ ] Upload Jupyter integration document to github


### Completed tasks
- [x] Thomas to create GitHub repo and projects 
- [ ] ~*Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)~
- [x] *Peter & Thomas* Alternative cost calculation based on e-neutrons.org usage  Deadline: 1st week in January 
- [ ] ~*Thomas* to get somebody to review if pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)~ Handed over to ELI
- [x] Thomas & Danielle* Doodling design workshop
- [ ] ~*All* Review tasks on ![mind map](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/Requirements.pdf)~
- [ ] ~*Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org~ 
- [ ] ~*All* Review tasks on ![mind map](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/Requirements.pdf)~
- [ ] ~*Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)~
- [ ] ~*Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org~
- [ ] ~*Teodor* Come up with name for design task~
- [x] *Thomas* Text for circulation TtT
- [x] *Thomas* Requirements for participants in workshop.
- [ ] ~~*Florian* Write down requirements for participants in TtT.~~
- [x] *Florian* Discussion of requirements, sustainability, cost of training portal and its component- [x] *Thomas* Google doc -> Vincent
- [x] *Nazaré* reach out to LEAPS 
- [x] *Thibaud and Thomas* come up with suggestions for joint KPIs and circulate for review
- [x] *Thomas* Move user stories to google docs
- [x] *Thibaud* to include courses already in github in his list of courses
- [x] *Nicoletta* check up on calendar on panosc.eu
- [x] *Everybody* use cases to Andy for annual meeting (partner by partner)
- [x] *Thomas* discuss time and number of participants for online course
- [x] *Kareem & Peter* Start testing AAI for pan-learning.org. Setup work meeting in week 44.
- [x] Thomas reach out to LENS training working group
- [x] Florian reach out to laserlab
- [x] Thibaud & Thomas. Draft slides for *Progress* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [x] Florian. Draft slides for *Dependencies on other work packages* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [x] *Florian & Thibaud* collate material for presentation
- [x] *Peter & Thomas* prepare and do the presentation. -> Nazaré & Thomas
- [ ] *Thomas* ~~to discuss with Victor if he would like to present about the usage of pan-learning.org for an actual course.~~
- [x] *Thomas* Circulate draft for workshop
- [x] *Peter* invite for weekly technical meetings
- [x] *Thomas* send material for presentation to Florian
- [x] *Thomas* send material for presentation to Florian- [x] *Peter* Ensure pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)- [x] *Peter* invite for weekly technical meetings
- [x] *Everybody* review letter drafted by Florian and Thomas (*Deadline Oct 6*). Follow-up discussion on Oct 7 meeting
- [x] *Thomas & Peter* Investigate how ExPaNDS can get access to upload their own material to the library and develop courses
- [x] *Peter* invite Oliver to technical meetings
- [x] *Everybody* Have a look at the [ELIXIR e-learning platform](https://elixir.mf.uni-lj.si)
- [x] Thibaud & Thomas. Realign joint Gantt chart due to extension of ExPaNDS duration. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting
- [x] Thomas. Send learning-objectives-letter to wp leaders in panosc. Deadline 2020-10-07






