***22022-01-28***

## Participants

Teodor (ELI)
Miguel (ILL)
Giuseppe (EGI)
Oliver (HZDR)
Antoinne (SOLEIL)
Aljosa (CERIC)
Stella (ESS)
Petra (ESS)
Kareem (ESS)



# Agenda 

3. MS 8.5
4. Redesign
5. EOSC Future
2. Content in PaN-Learning.org
6. Updates on ExPaNDS and PaNOSC


# Minutes


# 2022-01-28

## 1. MS 8.5

- Alex is setting the notebooks for ESRF / CERIC & ILL / ESSup on the platform now
- The notebook from ElI is received.
- The Issue with getting XFEL notebook running due to simex errors is now fixed - we have a container based on ubuntu environment

## 2. Redesign

- Redesign is available here:  https://github.com/pan-training/training-catalogue/issues/36
- Next step is to get it up running on pan-training.eu and registered as EOSC service. Alex will initiate a test for pan-learning.org + pan-training.hzdr.de -> pan-training.eu/catalogue, etc
- The pan-learning courses are automatically inserted in the catalog
- Automatic scraping from PanOSC events and LEAPS - LENS &  ExPaNDS turned out to be too complicated
- We are waiting for an OK from ExPaNDS. This could be ready in two weeks


## 3. EOSC Future
There is still a request from Rudolf Dimper related to sustainability and Thomas R and Stella should set up a meeting with Oliver but they needd more details from Rudolf.

## 4. Other ExPaNDS updates
Oliver reported that [ExPaNDS Symposium for Librarians and Data Managers](https://expands.eu/2021/07/19/save-the-date-expands-symposium-for-librarians-and-data-policy-staff/) was run yesterday.

## PaNOSC updates 
Nothing to report

## Updates on Content

Doru reported that Mousumi (ELI) is preparing a simex-spectroscopy-Jupyter training and also they are preparing training material for ELI beamlines about FLUKA MC simulations. 

Stella has received some Jupyter notebooks from WP5.

Marius confirmed that he is working on converting HERCULES course to e-learning.org but that it had turned out to be more time consuming than expected. 

## Joint landing page
Thomas reported that e.g. ESRF has reported that they didn't understand how pan-learning.org plays together with the training catalogue. Some of the participants shared that impression. It was also reported that it is already hard to find relevant material in a catalogue. 

There was a discussion about whether the workflow in the training catalogue was replicating pan-learning.org. It seems to do that although material in pan-learning can be used in courses with registered students. On the other hand, users do not need to login to use the workflow in the training catalogue. 

It was decided to create a working group who should work on joining the two approaches into a common P&N training portal. The working group consists of:

- Oliver (HZDR)
- Stella (ESS)
- Marius (ESRF)
- Jiri (ELI) + possibly Doru. 


