Agenda
------
* Organization of wp contribution to annual meeting


Participants
------------
* Vincent (ESRF)
* Peter (ESS)
* Fredrik (ESS)
* Thomas (ESS)
* Danielle (ESS)
* Oliver (HZDR)
* Nazaré (SOLEIL)
* Thibaud (SOLEIL)
* Teodor (ELI)
* Florian (ELI)



Minutes
-------

Florian presented the objectives and schedule for the annual meeting. The plan is to have 20 mins presentation followed by 20 mins discussion for each ExPaNDS/PaNOSC WP. In the joint session for WP5/WP8 we should present
1. Progress
1. Dependencies on other work packages
1. Plans for engagement with users
1. Roadmap 

### 1. Progress

We should present what has been done in each project and jointly. The WP leaders should draft some slides for this

#### PaNOSC
Present what has been don on pan-learning.org
* Jupyter integration
* Federated AAI


#### ExPaNDS
Seminar on FAIR data


#### Jointly
Alignment of plans. 

**TODO** Realign joint Gantt chart due to extension of ExPaNDS duration (Thibaud & Thomas)
**TODO** Draft slides for done work (Thibaud & Thomas)


###  2. Dependencies on other work packages

* The training work packages rely heavily on the other work packages
* ExPaNDS has started discussions with work packages and PaNOSC has drafted a letter. We should circulate this letter so that we can get some feedback before the annual meeting and discuss that. 
* We have received a few Jupyter notebooks from WP5 that we can play around with, one for photons and one for neutrons. We can show that as an example.
* An open question is how we feed content into our portal / platform?

**TODO** send learning-objectives-letter to wp leaders in panosc with expands in copu
**TODO** Draft slides for this section (Florian)


### 3. Plans for engagement with users
* We should give an overview of existing training material and past examples of how pan-learning.org has been used. ExPaNDS will try to collect training material from partners beforehand. We already have some material in the [github repository](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/TrainingMaterials)
* We should give an update on future events, in this regard we should update the joint Gannt chart (see previous ***TODO***)

**TODO** Collect material from ExPaNDS partners (Thibaud & Nazaré). Also see tasks from [previous meeting](Biweekly_2020-10-02.md)
**TODO** Draft slides for this part (Florian)

### 4. Roadmap
We should give an overview of where we would like to be in the future, incl beyond the life time of this project, but with focus on the first 12 months

* Important that we address sustainaility 
* We should start to discuss how we can and will like to implement a library / aggregator of existing training material / courses. Florian and Teodor have started to discuss this (and it is also discussed in the document that Thibaud and Nazaré have started drafting, see [previous meeting](Biweekly_2020-10-02.md). Agreed that we should discuss this at a tehnical meeting on the coming Friday where Oliver, Peter, Thomas, Teodor, Florian, Fredrik, and Sebastian should participate. 

**TODO** Invite for technical meeting (Danielle)

### AoB
Next regular biweekly meeting scheduled for Friday 16 October


Actions
-------

- [ ] Thibaud & Thomas. Realign joint Gantt chart due to extension of ExPaNDS duration. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thibaud & Thomas. Draft slides for *Progress* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thomas. Send learning-objectives-letter to wp leaders in panosc. Deadline 2020-10-07 
- [ ] Florian. Draft slides for *Dependencies on other work packages* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. Deadline 2020-11-02 (before annual meeting)
- [ ] ***Everybody*** Remember actions from [last meeting](Biweekly_2020-10-02.md)

