Participants:

Andrew, Petra, Kareem (ESS)
Miguel (ILL)
Marius (ESRF)
Ana Valcarcel (SOLEIL)
Oliver Knoderl
Teodore (ELI)

Agenda

Meeting in Prague
Summer school action list
Summer school advertisment and organisational questions
Summer school - update from the “scientific group” (marius, me and Mousomi)
AOB

Minutes

**Meeting in Prage:**
The e-learning platform: Ana wants to have discussions and spread the information about the platform. Doru suggests to inform trainers that they do not need to spend alot time to get the content for a ppt. We should also educate the other wp leaders on this when in Prague. 2 h session sounds good.

**Summer school action list:**
For the tool session we need to appoint speakers. Marius is going to speak to Axel and Loïc to see if they are free and willing to talk
The speakers for the different sessions need to coordinate their talks. Fredrik and Doru will discuss in Prague concerning "Data Management and Proposal writing". Andrew and Mads are coordinating already on "Jupyter and Python".
For the technical solutions we will not run compute via AWS, but instead use plan B. Peter W need to upload to GitHub so Marius can test.
Petra will arrange a meeeting to check that we have all info in a flow so that students actually will have the knowledge we ask of them to do proposal writing the last day of the summer school.

**Summer school advertisment and organisational questions:**
Doru will have a meeting today with Alexandra and Dora on the hands on planning for on-site. Advertisement wise - everyone is asked to spread the word on https://indico.eli-laser.eu/event/13/timetable/

**Summer school - update from the “scientific group”:**
There was a meeting on Wednsday between Mousumi, Marius and Andrew and they are getting there. There will be a shared information page. There are speakers planned for some parts allready.

**To follow up on in next meeting:**
Result of e-learning discussions in Prague
Do we have speakers for the summer school tool session?
Are the talks for the summer school coordinated?
Has Peter W uploaded Docker file to GitHub so Marius can test? Status on testing?
How is the status of on-site practical planning?
How many has registered? Do we need more advertisment?
When can we have the scientific days time-tabled with speakers?

