# WP8/WP5

# Participants

* Antoine (SOLEIL)
* Oliver (HZDR)
* Marius (ESRF)
* Thomas (XFEL)
* Aljosa (CERIC)
* Thomas (ESS)
* Stella (ESS)
* Teodor (ELI)


# Agenda

1. PaNOSC Deliverable 8.1
2. ExPaNDS Deliverable 5.2 
3. Joint landing page for training catalogue and pan-learning.org
4. Updates on Umbrella ID
5. Updates on training content


# Minutes

## 1. PaNOSC Deliverable 8.1: Lessons learned about data stewardship and teaching it
This deliverable is delayed. Doru has collected some training material and it was agreed that it should be uploaded to pan-learning.org with help from Stella. 
Doru has also drafted a report for the deliverable but has not gotten any input to it from the other partners. Later today we Thomas 
and Doru will have a meeting with Jordi and Andy about the way forward. Doru and Thomas will propose to postpone the deliverable to
allow for the organization of a workshop. Alternatively, we may be able to hook into other workshops such as the one organized by ExPaNDS on FAIR data, 
Internal workshop for ELI beamlines, or the ILL/ESS user meeting.

## 2. ExPaNDS Deliverable 5.2: data catalogue portal
Oliver reported that this deliverable is currently under review. A lot of the feedback was about why TESS was chosen. Oliver will share feedback

**Action:** Oliver share feedback from internal review.


## 3. Joint landing page for catalogue & e-learning

We currently have two services: the ExPaNDS data catalogue and the PaNOSC pan-learning.org e-learning platform. The two services should have a joint landing page 
so that there is a single entry point for training activities in the P&N community. Everybody should review the two services for the next meeting and provide feedback, 
specifically wrt how the two services can be 'merged' into one service. 


## 4. Umbrella id

Umbrella id is not up running for pan-learning.org. Andy has logged in with his ESRF username. However, Jupyter services within pan-learning.org does not work yet.

## Training content

Marius is working on converting a Hercules course to pan-learning.org and Stella has received some photon specific notebooks from WP5.


