

2022-04-22 Participants

CERIC: **Aljosa**
ELI: **Doru**
ESRF: **Marius**
ESS: **Andrew, Thomas, Petra, Kareem**


**Agenda**
1. catch up from last meeting
2. f2f meeting
3. Summer School planning
4. AOB

**Minutes 2022-04-22**

1. Catch up from last meeting: Umbrella ID - ELI still have trouble with Umbrella ID. No trouble at DMSC. 
**Action:** Kareem will test again.

2. f2f meeting: Date is set to 11th and 12th of May. The plan for the meeting is content for summer school. Before the f2f meeting we can work on some things to be able to focus on content when meeting.
    Info on practicalities (hotels and transport) will be sent to people today or monday.
    To plan for the summer school these area should be in focus:
    - Andrew - Neutron
    - Mausuni - laser - she is aware of this. Theodore has informed her.
    -  Marius - Xray
    - We also want to have scientific focus for the summer school. How will students be able to use research infrastructures?
    - To look at a same sample for different techniques - is a good suggestion. But we will need to look at this closer in the f2f meeting to see if/how that could work.
   -  FAIR data principles. 
   **Action:** Andrew to draft an agenda for f2f and send out so we can disucss in 2 weeks and finalize before the actual f2f.
   Day 1 - presentation of the 3 techniques and identify features that go across. Identify what services need to be in place to get this to work.
   Day 2 - create a time plan with actions from f2f meeting until summer school starts. Define all stakeholders and what information they will need when.
   **Aation 2:** Andrew to send an email with Suggestion on what he will talk about for neutrons so that Mausuni and Mauris can get an understanding.
    
3. Summer School: Suggestion would be second week of Septmeber to be able to plan it thoughrouly. A week long school - mon-fri (starting 12th of Sep). Theodore will plan for space and see no issues. For precticialities concerning housing, transport etc -ELi will be in charge.

4. AOB: Hercules. We need to await info from Miguel.
  

