Participants
=

* Vincent, ESRF (PaNOSC)
* Jordi, ESRF (PaNOSC)
* Thibaud, Soleil (ExPaNDS)
* Miguel, ILL, (PaNOSC)
* Mousumi, ELI (PaNOSC)
* Thomas, ESS (PaNOSC)

Agenda
=

1. PaNOSC WP8 updates
1. ExPaNDS WP5 updates
1. DANS training workshop
1. Copenhagen f2f meeting
1. AoB


Minutes
=

PaNOSC WP8 updates
-
* Migration of e-learning platform to ESS on track. New branding is needed because it covers both photons and neutrons, 
  nor can it be panosc related, because that would exclude ExPaNDS
  * Proposals for new name: 
     * elephant, e.g. elephant.school (E-LEarning platform for PHoton And Neutron scattering Training)
     * pan-learning (or nap-learning)
    Suggestions are welcome and we can vote for a winner later on. 
* Peter has found a solution for how to integrate jupyter into e-learning platform (internal milestone) and has communicated 
  that to ELI in charge of this task. Peter is also in contact with the developers behind the technology. 

ExPaNDS WP5 updates
-
* Waiting for updates from WP8 and access and knowledge about how to use e-learning platform.

DANS training workshop
-
PaNOSC and ExPaNDS have been invited to a DANS workshop on training in EOSC. Thibaud and Vicent, for the first half of workshop, 
will participate on behalf of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC, respectively. There is some uncertainty about the exact scope of this event.


Copenhagen f2f meeting
-
There is doodle out for having a f2f lunch-to-lunch meeting in Copenhagen. The purpose of the meeting will be to organize 
and make decisions about workshop towards end of this year. Questions are e.g. target audience and content. A staff member 
crucial for this event is unfortunately on leave. The participants therefore agreed to wait for another ten days before 
making any decision. 

AoB
-
* Jordi enguired about whether integration of Jupyter in the e-learning platform could be demonstrated for the PaNOSC reciew. Thomas responded that it would be unlikely because the actual integration is first due in a year's time from now.
* ILL recruited person for WP5 (and possiblye WP8) will start next Monday






