Agenda
======
1. Tasks from previous meetings
1. Architecture & maintenance; Do we know who would develop and maintain which components of a potential Training Portal composed of Calendar, Training library, and e-learning module?
1. EGI meeting 
1. Annual meeting 
1. AoB

Participants
============

Summary
=======


1. Tasks from previous meetings
-------------------------------

2. Architecture & maintenance
-----------------------------
- [ ] Thomas reach out to LENS training working group
- [ ] Nazaré reach out to LEAPS 
- [ ] Florian reach out to laser lab 


3. EGI meeting
--------------

4. Annual meeting
-----------------
* Deadline for slides Tuesday

Florian will work with Thibaud on Monday




5. AoB
------



Actions
=======
- [ ] *Peter & Thomas* prepare and do the presentation. -> Nazaré & Thomas
- [ ] *Thomas* -to discuss with Victor if he would like to present about the usage of pan-learning.org for an actual course.-
- [ ] *Kareem & Peter* Start testing AAI for pan-learning.org. Setup work meeting in week 44.
- [ ] *Florian & Thibaud* collate material for presentation
- [ ] *Thibaud* to send links for two courses that should go into pan-learning.org
- [ ] *Thibaud* to include courses already in github in his list of courses
- [x] *Peter* invite for weekly technical meetings
- [ ] *Thomas* discuss time and number of participants for online course
- [x] *Thomas* Circulate draft for workshop
- [x] *Thomas* send material for presentation to Florian 
- [ ] *Everybody* use cases to Andy for annual meeting (partner by partner)
- [x] *Peter* Ensure pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)
- [ ] *Thomas* to get somebody to review if pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)
- [ ] Contact organizers of FAIRsFAIR to learn about their experiences with organizing a workshop, which can be used for developing the online workshop for staff training
- [x] *Everybody* review letter drafted by Florian and Thomas (*Deadline Oct 6*). Follow-up discussion on Oct 7 meeting
- [ ] *Nicoletta* check up on calendar on panosc.eu
- [ ] *Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)
- [x] *Thomas & Peter* Investigate how ExPaNDS can get access to upload their own material to the library and develop courses
- [ ] *Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org
- [x] *Peter* invite Oliver to technical meetings
- [x] *Everybody* Have a look at the [ELIXIR e-learning platform](https://elixir.mf.uni-lj.si)
- [x] Thibaud & Thomas. Realign joint Gantt chart due to extension of ExPaNDS duration. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thibaud & Thomas. Draft slides for *Progress* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [x] Thomas. Send learning-objectives-letter to wp leaders in panosc. Deadline 2020-10-07 
- [ ] Florian. Draft slides for *Dependencies on other work packages* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. Deadline 2020-11-02 (before annual meeting)





