Participants
=

* Guiseppe (EGI)
* Danielle (ESS)
* Thomas (ESS)
* Kareem (ESS)
* Alexandre (ESS)
* Peter (ESS)
* Miguel (ILL)
* Oliver (HZDR)
* Uwe (HZDR)
* Florian (ELI)
* Teodor (ELI)
* Thibaud (SOLEIL)
* Nicoletta (CERIC)
* Thomas (XFEL)


Agenda
=

1. Upcoming [EGI conference](https://indico.egi.eu/event/5000/contributions/14180/)
1. Update on AAI
1. ExPaNDS survey (Status for collating training material)
1. Input from PaNOSC WP4 - data analysis services
1. Participants in technical meeting
1. Preparation for annual meeting
1. Architecture for learning portal (external material + e-learning)
1. AoB


Minutes
=

## 1. Upcoming EGI conference

[EGI conference](https://indico.egi.eu/event/5000/contributions/14180/) update from Thibaud. 15 mins presentation needed on 2/11. Present use case and how training platform will be used for both agregator and Jupyter hub. **Action** Peter & Thomas prepare and do the presentation.
**Action** Thomas to discuss with Victor if he would like to present about the usage of pan-learning.org for an actual course.


## 2. Update on AAI

### Current State:
- Keycloak VM installed and accessible to the outside world (https://keycloak.esss.dk)
- Limited Realm exposure to the outside world: no direct access to Realm login page through reverse proxy
- AAI configuration tested on an internal network nodejs applications, where access is granted through Keycloak server
- DMSC LDAP added as an IdP (identity provider) to access the nodejs application successfully

### Outstanding items:
- Realm login page accessible externally
- Testing a production-like application to use Keycloak for authentication: eg. Jenkins server
- Configure and test pan-learning.org to use Keycloak for AAI

**Action** Kareem & Peter. Start testing AAI for pan-learning.org. Setup work meeting in week 44.

## 3. ExPaNDS survey 
Thibaud shared training materials available from ExPANDS partners. Will share overview after today’s meeting. Input needed by Tuesday 27/10. Thomas mentioned that ESS has a Python course and that there is a list of courses in github that should be included in the survey.

Thomas requested that Thibaud identify two courses that they would like to see in pan-learning.org

**Action** Thibaud to send links for two courses that should go into pan-learning.org
**Action** Thibaud to include courses on github in his survey

## 4. Input from PaNOSC WP4 - data analysis services
Thomas (XFEL) emailed to Thomas (ESS) collated input from PaNOSC WP4. Email was forwarded to Thibaud. 

## 5. Participants in technical meetings
ELI would like to contribute to the devops development for pan-learning.org. Moreover, ELI would like to learn more about the AAI approach for their own purpose. The following people should therefore be invited in the future for technical meetings:
1. Peter (ESS)
1. Kareem (ESS)
1. Alexander (ESS)
1. Sebastian (ELI)
1. Teodor (ELI)
1. Oliver (HZDR)

**Action** Peter invite for weekly technical meetings

## 6. Preparation for annual meeting

Collaborate with WP9 to promote content and use case for e-learning platform. Identify people motivated to create content, a champion per facility, who should participate in the upcoming workshop on developing content for pan-learning.org. Annual meeting should be used to identify training champions at each facility and motivate content creators. Aim is to continuously assist users at other facilities on how to utilize platform during the life time of PaNOSC. Need to identify long term contacts at each facility that will continue to assist users after project completion. At ESS, Thomas will engage the  Instrument Data Scientists in developing the e-learning platform. 

**Action** Thomas discuss time and number of participants for online course
**Action** Thomas Circulate draft for workshop
**Action** Thomas send material for presentation to Florian 

## 7. Architecture for learning portal (external material + e-learning)
Will be discussed at seperate meeting. The first technical meeting. Florian and Thomas should also be invited for this meeting. 

## 8. AoB
Nil



Actions
=
- [ ] *Peter & Thomas* prepare and do the presentation.
- [ ] *Thomas* to discuss with Victor if he would like to present about the usage of pan-learning.org for an actual course.
- [ ] *Kareem & Peter* Start testing AAI for pan-learning.org. Setup work meeting in week 44.
- [ ] *Florian & Thibaud* collate material for presentation
- [ ] *Thibaud* to send links for two courses that should go into pan-learning.org
- [ ] *Thibaud* to include courses on github in his survey
- [ ] *Peter* invite for weekly technical meetings
- [ ] *Thomas* discuss time and number of participants for online course
- [ ] *Thomas* Circulate draft for workshop
- [ ] *Thomas* send material for presentation to Florian 
- [ ] *Everybody* use cases to Andy
- [ ] *Peter* Ensure pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)
- [ ] Contact organizers of FAIRsFAIR to learn about their experiences with organizing a workshop, which can be used for developing the online workshop for staff training
- [ ] *Everybody* review letter drafted by Florian and Thomas (*Deadline Oct 6*). Follow-up discussion on Oct 7 meeting
- [ ] *Nicoletta* check up on calendar on panosc.eu
- [ ] *Thibaud* Send examples of courses to Thomas (*Deadline Oct 5* - if possible)
- [ ] *Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)
- [ ] *Thomas & Peter* Investigate how ExPaNDS can get access to upload their own material to the library and develop courses
- [ ] *Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org
- [ ] *Peter* invite Oliver to technical meetings
- [ ] *Everybody* Have a look at the [ELIXIR e-learning platform](https://elixir.mf.uni-lj.si)
- [ ] Thibaud & Thomas. Realign joint Gantt chart due to extension of ExPaNDS duration. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thibaud & Thomas. Draft slides for *Progress* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thomas. Send learning-objectives-letter to wp leaders in panosc. Deadline 2020-10-07 
- [ ] Florian. Draft slides for *Dependencies on other work packages* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. Deadline 2020-11-02 (before annual meeting)


Completed
-


