Project Management Committee Meeting 11/05/2022
===============================================

Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF),  Patrick Fuhrmann (ExPANDS), Paul Millar (ExPANDS), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Dario Rocella (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Giuseppe la Rocca (EGI) , Tobias Richter (ESS) , Fabio Dall'Antonia (Eu XFEL), Carsten Fortmann-Grote (EU XFEL) and Erwan le Gall (ILL)

**1. Next Deliverables and milestones**

D1.9 Mid-year summary: Jordi reminded WP leads to fill in the D1.9 google doc for their respective WPs. Jordi would like to have the document ready for review by 20 May 2022. 

D3.5 NeXus Metadata Schema: Tobias informed that a discussion session was organized yesterday. All the contributions are expected by next Tuesday for consolidation. By end of next week, Teodor should receive the document for review.
Erwan will check if suitable personnel from ILL can contribute to this document.

D4.3 Remote desktop and Jupyter service deployed at EOSC: Fabio informed that work is ongoing on this deliverable and draft should be ready soon, this draft will be shared on google drive. Next Tuesday a meeting will be organized to review the draft. Fabio will follow up with concerned persons to onboard XFEL VISA on EOSC.Jean-Francois Perrin accepted the request to review D4.3.
Andy discussed if all the participating RIs should onboard services on EOSC. If not possible, we should perhaps inform the PO and reviewers in the final project review that we could not onboard all the services due to various challenges.
Fabio thinks by the end of the project all the RIs except ELI should be able to onboard visa instances on EOSC.

MS13 Data analysis services accessible through EOSC: Jordi suggested to keep the milestone achievement text can be brief and linked to D4.3.

D5.3 Documented simulation tasks executable: Carsten informed that D5.3 will be ready to review by early next week. Someone from WP8 could possibly review the document. Jordi will check with Andrew and/or Thomas. 

MS16 VINYL software release: Jordi would be happy with a document with links to software code and documentation. Andy suggested to register the software on zenodo with a DOI. 

D7.3 PaN EOSC Business model reference doc: Ornela informed that a working group was set up with EGI, CERIC-ERIC, ELI and ESS to draft this document. Ornela will consolidate the inputs from partners and select a business model.
Jean-Francois Perrin would be able to review the document. 

**2. Grant Agreement amendment news**

Jordi had shared a google doc to collect inputs from project partners. Dario will fill in the CERIC-ERIC inputs. 

**3. Face to face meeting (PaNOSC-ExPaNDS) 14-15 June 2022**

A f2f meeting was organized yesterday. Nicolleta informed that meeting agenda is being prepared on indico page. Once the agenda is set, the registration for in person/remote participation. Teodor would like to know the number of onsite participants to accelerate the organization.
Andy told the ELI cleanroom visit could be difficult to organize. The event will take place in ELI facility near Prague. Event will start on 14th June and end of 15th June. Nicoletta prefers to inform the project members once the indico page and preliminary agenda is ready.
Andy would like to have a timeslot on the agenda for interproject coordination.

**4. News from ExPaNDS**

Juliane reported that ExPaNDS is busy with the F2F meeting organization. A milestone and a deliverable is due in May and June 2022. Patrick informed that there have been some challenges in reporting dissemination in conferences because there have not been many events lately. 

**5.News from the EOSC**
Paul reported that a PaN EOSC community tag can be added while onboarding services in the EOSC Marketplace. Andy discussed to the possibility of adding thematic cluster sections on the marketplace. Paul discussed the ongoing activities to prepare PaN serial crystallography demo at the imminent EOSC Future review. PSI, DESY and ESRF along with EGI are involved in the preparation of this demo. Gianluca Santoni (ESRF) is leading this work on the demo.Paul also discussed the possibilities for data transfer mechanisms (fts or globus etc). PSI would like to deploy a webserver developed by CNAF for the demo.The developments in the framework of this demo could be sustained.
Jean-Francois suggested to try FTS for the demo however a suitable solution will be necessary for the entire PaN community in the future. Jean-Francois attended the EOSC Future SOB meeting and PaN demo is very essential for the upcoming review.
Andy will attend the EOSC clusters call in the next week, and would like to discuss what the PaN community would like to achieve in this call. PaNOSC has been invited for a keynote at the IUCR conference.




