PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 17/06/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jamie (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Petra (ESS), Roberto (CERIC), Dario (CERIC) and Jon (ESS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Debrief from Review Meeting**

The Review Meeting took place 16/06/2020. Jordi reported his impressions from the meeting: It went very well, with very minor points whereh to focus / minor criticism. The project as a whole got praised, with the reviewer and project officer praising the impressive work done.

The reviewer noted that WP8 progress was not as impressive. 

Thomas pointed out that WP8 is delivering as per the proposal and grant agreement, therefore he doesn't fully understand this feedback. Hans said that he doesn't know what were the expectations, Ornela suggested that maybe was the lack of new/extra development on the training site and Rudolf especulated that maybe the comments were due to the technology used in the e-learning platform, which is not as modern as the technologies used in other WPs. Roberto agreed with Rudolf and Andy pointed out that in her role as teacher she may have been able to be more critic in this WP.

It was agreed that Thomas will amend the text for the periodic report over the next week. There wasn't consensus on whether come back to our reviewer to ask for more specific feedback/ clarifications. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ITpI3mAQ4FR454obS2D8gveL1mA5wEz7/view?usp=sharing

A discussion followed on engaging and working with other cluster projects and Andy explained that he is in conversations with SSHOC and EOSC Life

Regarding the feedback on engaging with users, it is possible that our reviewer was turning around PaNOSC's criticism of the EOSC not engaging enough with RIs and cluster projects, however Jon pointed out that for RIs getting users engaged is very very important.

Andy suggested putting videos of the demos done online and asked whether the Jupyter Binder in EGI would carry on, to which Giuseppe answered Yes. 

Nicoletta added that the annual meeting will have an event tailored for users and in the meantime more testimonials will go online in order to gather interest from users.

Rudolf added that making resources available for users should interest them.

Other feedback received by our Project Officer was the need to explain/justify deviations over 10% (PMs not spent, cost of PMs overshooting, etc.) as this will be automatically flagged up during the periodic report process to him.

Jordi and Andy understood that this should be written in section 5.1 of chapter 5 of the Technical Part of the report and all partners were asked to add this into the document. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ITpI3mAQ4FR454obS2D8gveL1mA5wEz7/view?usp=sharing

Rudolf suggested that the Coordinator (i.e. the ESRF) should also add an overall statement for PaNOSC as a whole and Jordi pointed out that financial information has been requested by the end of the month of June, so the ESRF can submit the information by mid-July. This is important as Andy and Jordi are due to go on annual leave in July.

Thomas mentioned that it would be good to add to the report the fact that PaN users work on both Photon and Neutron facilities at the same time.

With this, the points 1, 2 (*Revew Report to write*) and 3 (*Financial information*) of the agenda were covered. As a summary:
 * The Review Report to edit : https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ITpI3mAQ4FR454obS2D8gveL1mA5wEz7/view?usp=sharing which should be completed by 30th June
 * Financial information is required by 30th June (so it can be discussed in the next PMC scheduled for 1st July)
 * From 1st July, the ESRF will do final minor amendments in order to submit all the information by 15th July (PMC scheduled that day as well)
 * Jordi and Andy will go on annual leave afterwards, so it is very important to have all the information ready by 30th June

**4. EGI conference - PaN session with ExPaNDS**

Andy showed the document done together with ExPaNDS (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qc64SwTs3N9FEusbnMTths_cmCZuGRwBysZheWMrcIY/edit?usp=sharing) and it was agreed to expand it with an *Overview on Jupyter developments* and also *Remote access for experiments*.

Giuseppe pointed out that the documents for the EGI conference shoudl be submitted at the end of the week and also explained that in the next two months it will be decided whether the EGI Conference will be a face-to-face or remote event.

**5. Annual Meeting with ExPaNDS**

Andy reported a meeting about the Annual Meeting last week. He explained that event information is available at https://indico.maxiv.lu.se/event/1375/timetable/#20200618 and that it will be split in two parts:

 First: a symposium

 Second: hands-on sessions

Andy also explained that some speakers are confirmed and so is the Project Officer of ExPaNDS. The length will be three days and there will be some parallel sessions.

**6. Coming back to bi-weekly PMC meetings**

Jordi confirmed that the next PMC meeting will be 1st July at 14:00h and that by that time all contributions from all partners are expected (Report and also financial). Further meetings will be scheduled on a bi-weekly basis (unless otherwise specified).

**7. AOB**

Hans suggested that each partner nominates a member of staff for a "Portal Forum" as so far, ESRF and ILL are leading on this subject and more engagement from all the other partners are required.

Jordi pointed out that if a mailing list is required for this that could be arranged.















