Project Management Committee Meeting 08/06/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF),  Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Patrick Fuhrmann (ExPANDS), Paul Millar (EXPANDS), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS),  Dario Rocella (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela De Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Giuseppe la Rocca (EGI) , Petra Aulin (ESS) , Andrew Mccluskey (ESS), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Tobias Richter (ESS),  Fabio Dall'Antonia (Eu XFEL)

**1. Events**
PANOSC Summer school 2022 - Petra suggested all the participants to spread the word about PANOSC Summer school scheduled on 12-16 September 2022 in Szeged. More information on https://indico.eli-laser.eu/event/13/.
Nicoletta reminded the abstract submission deadline 15 June for the ESS ILL User Meeting.
Andy briefly mentioned EGI call for procurement. 

**2. PANOSC-EXPANDS f2f meeting, 14-15 June 2022, ELI ERIC**
F2F meeting agenda was extensively discussed and modified accordingly after the comments and suggestions from PMC members. Final agenda is available https://indico.eli-laser.eu/event/12/timetable/#20220614

**3. Upcoming Deliverables/Milestones updates**
Jordi provided an overview of deliverables and milestones which were due in May 2022. 
D4.3 - Fabio informed that the document is ready to review. Jean-Francois finds some sections still need to be completed to review the document. Fabio will complete these sections and share the document with Jean-Francois for review.
MS13 - WP4 and WP6 should provide updates to Jordi. Fabio said some of the partners still have not onboarded services on the EOSC portal so once that's completed we will be in good shape to report the milestone achievement.
Paul suggested harmonization of branding for PANOSC/EXPANDS services which will be onboarded on the EOSC portal.
D7.3 - Ornela mentioned that she should be able to draft the document over the next couple of weeks. 

**4. EOSC**
Ornela shared the feedback from the EOSC association general assembly. EOSC association would like to have regular meetings with clusters. This point can be further discussed during the F2F meeting next week. 
