PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 04/03/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Juncheng (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC) and Dario(CERIC)



Minutes
-------	

**1. Dates + Draft agenda for the Review meeting in Brussels ** 

No news. ESRF will contact our project officer to try to confirm more details for this Review Meeting, which is expected to take place during the last two weeks in June.


**2. Update on the next Annual Meeting with ExPaNDS** 

There is a meeting between PaNOSC and ExPaNDS scheduled for 04/03/2020 at 15:00h to finalise discussions on this topic. There is concern from some at ExPaNDS as the planned dates in November (9th afternoon to 11th) match those of an RDA meeting in Costa Rica, however the position at PaNOSC's PMC is that if possible at all it would be better to keep the current dates.

Florian also confirm that the ESFRI Chair is available to attend the Annual Meeting on 9th November in the afternoon, which would be great.

**3. Update on Milestone 8.3 pan-learning.org up and running**

Jordi explained that we missed the deadline for this milestone and that Thomas (WP8 leader) explained him that it is expected that we will be three weeks late. Andy and Jordi raised the issue that no notice was given for this delay, so while delays may take place and could even be unavoidable at some point it is important to inform everyone with time, so we can be ready.

**4. ExPaNDS Technical Coordination Board**

As per issue [56](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/56), ExPaNDS Technical Coordination Board (TCB) assists the Technical Coordinator in defining the technical strategy and in deciding on specific technical issues. It is responsible for the technical overview of the project, composed by the TC and technical experts appointed by the partners (one per beneficiary), with meetings at least every second month.

Jamie said that while he is involved in WP4 and WP6, he is not very aware of WP3 or WP5. Jordi pointed out that ExPaNDS does not have the equivalent of our WP5, therefore he covers most of the topics and would be a suitable candidate.

Jamie has then been nominated to ExPaNDS TCB and Jordi will inform Sophie of that.

**5. Update on PaNOSC space on Zenodo and upload deliverables to generate a DOI**

Nicoletta explaiend that she found out that Carsten had created a Zenodo community for PaNOSC already last year and that rather than creating a new one we are using the existing one. The curator for this community in Zenodo is publications@panosc.eu and Jordi and Andy have access to it.

It was clarified that ExPaNDS has its own Zenodo community separated from ours.

It was also clarified that while anyone can upload content to Zenodo and link it to a community, the curators (for now Andy and Jordi) will need to validate it. For now, in order to keep things simple only PMC members will be expected to upload content to PaNOSC's community in Zenodo.

It was agreed as well that Jordi will send an email to PMC members to update their information in the [stakeholders page](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/PaNOSC-Stakeholders), so it contains their ORCid.

**6. News from other proposals and events**

Before moving to the update from WP leaders, it was decided to briefly talk about two project proposals:

**INFRAEOSC-07**: No longer relevant and will be removed from future agendas.

**INFRAEOSC-03**: Rudolf explained that work is ongoing at a fast pace with the proposal and reminded everyone that he asked PaNOSC and ExPaNDS partner RIs to provide feedback on whether they want to participate by 04/03/2020 EOB, unfortunately no feedback has been received so far.

By joining the proposal, there could be some funding available (3.5M€ for our Science Cluster), a commitment to deliver the actions that Rudolf listed in his email and also the opportunity to shape the proposal that is being written.

Andy said that he expects DESY, PSI and Soleil to participate and provide feedback before the deadline.

Florian explained that while he finds very interesting and important the proposal he is concerned about the already overstreched workforce at ELI and the capacity to deliver the commitments from the call.

It was agreed that it is important that ESRF is not alone representing PaNOSC and the photon and neutron community.

**FAIRsFAIR data repository certification** : ESRF is participating on this and there are no news for now.

**FAIRsFAIR open call for FAIR champions** : Nicoletta explained that we can participate on this until the end of August, however apparently no one has done so from PaNOSC so far. It was agreed that Nicoletta will remind everyone of this and that Jordi will put this item higher up in the agenda, so hopefully after a couple of PMC meetings we can get a nice view of who would like to be a FAIR champion.

Andy explaind that PaNOSC is all about FAIR and therefore we are all "FAIR champions" and that he expects PaNOSC participants to volunteer as FAIR champions.

**EOSC-Life Annual Meeting** : Rudolf reported that this is taking place with the location changed from Florence to Brussels due to the ongoing coronavirus scare. He attended remotely the first day of meetings and found it interesting. Rudolf explained that there were conversations about EOSC biggest threat (lack of uptake by users? making parallel work converge? etc.) and collaboration between clusters.

Jamie asked wether are any concrete technical/tangible information about the EOSC and Rudolf said that while there is plenty of information and documentation, there is not a single library with content and still not a simple definition of what is the EOSC. Rudolf recommended reading the Tinman report, which is expected to evolve/be improved in a new report: The Ironlady report.

Rudolf also explained that the Commission wanst to have a legal entity created by the end of the year. Florian asked what form would this take and Rudolf said that he believes it will be a Belgian AISBL and that the timescales are challenging.


**7. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

* **WP1 - Management** : Jordi explained ongoing work for collaboration with Expands (see minutes of last meeting at the end of [issue 46](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46)), reminding WP leaders that do not have a complete set of KPIs that these are required, reminded everyone of upcoming milestones / deliverables, said that he will contact WP leaders to review existing risks and also that a new Internal Financial Report will be created in May covering up to the end of April.

* **WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship** : Andy reported an Icat meeting and face to face meeting end of May in Prague. He also explained that the deliverable which was planned to be advanced to April will not be finished until May.

* **WP3 - Data Catalog Services** : Tobias was absent. Petra reported that Gareth is leaving ESS in one month and that they are looking for a replacement. Everyone was sad to hear the news as Gareth is a well like and valuable member of WP3.

* **WP4 Data Analysis Services** : Hans was absent. Jamie reported that  the Coding workshop in Grenoble, 24-27 March, https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/43/ has been postponed (because of Covid19 and travel restrictions from institutions), however Andy asked ELI to come to Grenoble. ESS will not be able to attend, however some useful work can be done and this should be considered.

* **WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** : Juncheng reported that a face to face meeting is scheduled for 23rd and 24th April (this meeting could end up being remote if travel restrictions remain in place). Juncheng also said the preparation of the demo for the revie wmeeting is ongoing and that he believes that simulation data could be produced and have a 

It was agreed that it would be a nice idea to try to plan a meeting with all WPs doing a demo, so it flows all well (WP3, WP4, WP5 and WP6).

* **WP6 - EOSC Integration** : Jordi read the news that Jean-Francois shared with him by email:

AAI: the integration of UmbrellaID/Eduteam with keycloak has been achieved, we now just need to integrate with a shibboleth instance, before engaging in step 2 (Edugain, Orcid, ...)*
- *AAI: We are preparing a hands-on training session (focusing on keycloak for the integration into the RIs) for PaNOSC and ExPANDS partners for May at Amsterdam.  The 2-half days (lunch time to lunch time) session will be limited to 15 people, an indico site will be set up.*
- *Globus Connect: We (EGI and me) had a meeting with Globus Connect, we should receive soon the first commercial proposal.*
- *Archving pilot, the server has been reinstalled using Centos 7, we will start real test transfer using FTS next week.

* **WP7 - Sustainibility** : Ornela was absent / had problems with her computer. Dario reported that Roberto is working on the first half of the deliverable for May and Jordi enquired about the scope of the deliverable (stakeholder list or feedback from them as well?).

* **WP8 - Staff training in data stewardship** : Thomas was absent. Jordi already reported on the milestones 8.3 being missed. Petra reported planning ongoing for a meeting in Copenhagen.

* **WP9 - Outreach & Communication** : Nicoletta reported progress on the DOI video, saying that the changes requested seem feasible. She explained that we will not join the "EOSC Stakeholder forum" meeting. Nicoletta also asked who could volunteer to attend the FAIRsFAIR meeting in April in The Hague.







