**Project Management Committee Meeting 31/08/2022 at 14:00h**
=================================================================

**Participants: Andy Goetz(ESRF), Jordi Bodera (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF),  Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Dario Roccella (CERIC-ERIC), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Erwan le Gall (ILL), Fabio D'all Antonia (Eu XFEL), Teodor IvÄƒnoaica (ELI), Patrick Fuhrmann (EXPANDS), Juliane Marauska (EXPANDS)**


1. Continuation of PaNOSC, document shared by Andy 24/08/2022. TODO: PLEASE UPDATE THE TABLE OF THE STATUS OF ADOPTED OUTCOMES BY YOUR FACILITY ON PAGE 6

Andy reported that he received overall positive feedback from the LEAPS IT Working group meeting and the document is ready to be presented at the LEAPS GA. Thomas will submit the document to LENS.EXPANDS facilities should also complete the table. Andy will provide slides to Anna Orti to present in the LEAPS GA. ILL and ESS will change the inputs to VINYL field in the table.

Andy is expecting ELI and CERIC-ERIC feedback to participate as observer in the INFRAEOSC-01-01 call. Teodor informed there is a possibility to join the project as a strategic partner for IT activities and more discussions are planned with Ornela this week.
Dario discussed that at CERIC-ERIC not all the instruments concern photon or neutron, so the values for the nexus data format should be WIP or N. Andy replied WIP would be suitable.

Mads Bertelsen received ENSA award for his work in PANOSC. More details on https://europeanspallationsource.se/article/2022/08/24/mads-bertelsen-received-ensa-award .

Teodor informed that he will be presenting some of the highlights of PaNOSC results at the upcoming PANOSC Summer school. He added that hes been receiving interesting technical suggestions from the school participants ahead of the event.

Andy informed that in the US there have been some S&T policy updates concerning Open Science. More info on https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/08/25/ostp-issues-guidance-to-make-federally-funded-research-freely-available-without-delay/


2. PaNOSC closing event - where and when?

Jordi informed that EOSC Symposium could not accommodate a PaNOSC final event as a satellite event to the programme. Andy suggested organizing a smaller internal event and provide the feedback to the EOSC Symposium. This internal event could focus on lessons learnt for the future projects.
Jean-Francois proposed to organize an all-hands meeting to bring together all the consortium members because the WP members have not had a possibility to meet in person lately.

As all the project members have been successfully collaborating almost 4 years now, so this event could be a great opportunity to bring everyone together. WP leads can provide feedback from their respective WPs. Jordi agreed with Jean-Francois and suggested to involve all the project members. Such event would bring together PANOSC and EXPANDS project members with approximate number of participants around 120-150. Teodor assured that it is possible to find a venue. 
Jean-Francois suggested to involve EC policy officers in the PANOSC event to further engage with the EC in the EOSC context. Nicoletta suggested having a timeslot ( 1hr) to involve EC policy officers and EOSC Association members. Andy suggested organizing a cluster event with other cluster members at the symposium. 
ESRF can host the final event, like the kickoff. Andy invited PMC members to provide concrete suggestions for the next PMC. 

ICRI Event- Teodor informed that Andy and Patrick should contact the organizers for PANOSC talk. ESRF and Soleil are oganizing a VISA workshop in September. Clara (Soleil) will contact Teodor to have ELI participation in this event.


3. Grant Agreement amendment news

Jordi reminded that Project officer has requested additional details on the GA amendment. Teodor is awaiting feedback from Florian for the GA amendment.

4.Pending Deliverables/Milestones until end of the project

D7.3 PaN EOSC Business model reference doc - Ornela will be back on 5th September and Jordi will check with her.

D8.3 Teaching material for users - Thomas informed the school will be organized as planned and teaching material is ready for the school.

D6.6 Integration of RIs in EOSC - Giuseppe informed the work is in progress for this deliverable. Giuseppe also clarified that EOSC Services concern horizontal as well as domain specific services.
He will also resolve jupyter cloud instance issue reported by Andy.


Andy warned that all the deliverables need to be submitted to receive the final payment from the EC.
Jordi suggested to plan well ahead to ensure on-time submission of multiple deliverables which are due in November 2022. Andy suggested discussing the final deliverables in the PANOSC final event in November.


5. Recommendations from Periodic Report

Only Tobias has addressed some of the recommendations.

6. News from ExPaNDS
Juliane provided updates from EXPANDS. Two deliverables are due in September on Annual report and e-learning platform website. User meeting in Brussels is being rescheduled. WP2 is organizing a survey with the beamline scientists. Four senior management personnel were interviewed.
Patrick will have a meeting with DESY management for INFRAEOSC-01-01 call and he will use Andy's slide to encourage DESY participation. Patrick would like to sort out PANOSC event organization at ICRI with Andy. It was agreed that PANOSC event will be a virtual event.
Nicoletta reminded to upload slides from the previous F2F meeting on the indico page. 

7. News from the EOSC

Jean-Francois provided updates from WP6 of EOSC Future. As WP6 is heavily underspending, a meeting dedicated to WP6 is organized in Seville in September. Jordi and possibly Jean-Francois will attend this meeting.
Patrick informed that EOSC Future milestone descriptions are being translated in a more user friendly language. 

8. AOB
PANOSC and EXPANDS talk has been accepted to NOBUGS conference. Andy will share the feedback with Nicoletta for communication reporting. Nicoletta will draft an article on the main results of PANOSC. Nicoletta invited WP leads to verify PANOSC peer reviewed articles list on the website.





