# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 20/01/2021

### Participants
Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Florian Gliksohn (ELI), Thomas Holm (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Yuri Kiryenko (XFEL), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF),  Roberto Pugliese (CERIC-ERIC), Dario Roccella (CERIC-ERIC), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC)

### Agenda
#### 1. T 7.4 Report on sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: WP4 Sandor Brockhauser and WP8, Florian Gliksohn
#### 2. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
#### 3. T 7.1 Stakeholder consultation: collection of feedback for questionnaire proposed by Roberto
#### 4. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners

### Minutes
#### 1. T 7.4 Report on sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: WP4 Sandor Brockhauser and WP8, Florian Gliksohn
Florian Gliksohn presents the considerations related to the training platform (WP8) sustainability and how some key questions have been discussed inside the WP and with WP7 without, at the moment, final conclusions. He introduces the expected outputs and the added value of the trainings and the training platform. He explains that although initially the trainings appeared to be mainly focused on data management, with also Expands needing for a training platform, the PaNOSC platform can be open to other kind of trainings interesting for the PaN community. The platform will also have the possibility to index contents hosted by third parties. Florian Gliksohn highlights that since it will be a PaNOSC-Expands platform, responsibilities related to the management of the platform will need to be defined, as well as its brand.  

possibility to index contents hosted by third parties. Florian Gliksohn highlights that since it will be a PaNOSC-Expands platform, responsibilities related to the management of the platform will need to be defined, as well as its brand.  
According to Florian the training platform could be accessible from the PaNOSC portal (developed in Wp 4). The governance of the platform after PaNOSC should be discussed. An emerging point is whether it will be made available to third parties as well, even extra EU. Partners agree the platform, should be as inclusive as possible. Ornela de Giacomo points out that here in the training platform, unlike the Panosc portal, if some facility doesn´t want to contribute it does not pose a problem of survival of the platform, meanwhile in the PaNOSC portal, the lack of participation of some facilities can compromise its sustainability.

Ornela de Giacomo also highlights that in the case of opting for a model where there is one or few champions (facilities) that commit to maintain the federated instance, she is not sure of how much added value maintaining the training platform for all partners can bring to the facilities/partners in charge, so we will have to think on ways of rewarding for those that will be in charge of this task. Florian Gliksohn states that for some partners a learning platform can be needed even internally, and they can profit from this platform to use it also for internal purposes, choosing which content can be shared with everyone or with the personnel/users of the facility, and the PaNOSC training platform would work as an umbrella. Teodor Ivanoaica explains an example where some content can be private and Florian Gliksohn agrees and states that there can be some capacity developed at central level and other locally, involving partners that don´t have their own learning platform.  Teodor Ivanoaica states that for their distributed nature they are considering an approach similar to the PaNOSC portal, with some common general content and the rest of the contents developed locally by and for each facility. He highlights that it would be important to decide the model for the platform, since that is still under discussion. Sandor Brockhauser confirms that in the development of the PaNOSC portal they foresee this kind of approach, with local instances and a federated one, and each partner being free to offer local services in their local instance.

Florian Gliksohn shows the current economic estimation for the platform and explains how they are trying to calculate the scaling for fixed and variable costs. He explains that at the moment they lack of a precise estimation for the community building (like costs related to dissemination, promotion, etc.), that these costs may be underestimated. Florian Gliksohn  highlights that for the cost calculations it´s key to define which will be the capacity of the training platform (how many users can be served simultaneously). 
In the final part of the presentation Florian Gliksohn shows the key questions that should be solved regarding: the relation between the training platform and the PaNOSC portal developed in Wp4, the unit costs and scaling factors, the sustainability model and the governance.  Ornela de Giacomo asks when they think the training portal will be operative, and Thomas replies that the milestone is to have it ready by mid 2021.
Rudolf Dimper states that we have PaNOSC and ExPaNDS projects as drivers to start the process and later maybe other projects to go on with the process and to decide on the economic model. Angela Zennaro states that, even if without precise numbers, possible business model should be considered during PaNOSC project.  Rudolf Dimper considers that during PaNOSC we have to show to the lab managers that the platform is valuable. 


#### 2. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
After the finalization of Florian Gliksohn presentation, Ornela de Giacomo reminds to everyone that regarding the cost collection (T 7.2), it should be finalized by the end of this month and that we cannot wait longer in order to proceed, otherwise the deliverable may me compromised. 
A deadline will be proposed, after which the cost analysis will start, independently on the number of partners that have completed the cost collection. Of course this may affect the efficiency of the business models, so it should be avoided.

#### 2. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
#### 3. T 7.1 Stakeholder consultation: collection of feedback for questionnaire proposed by Roberto
Due to the lack of time to discuss all the topics of the agenda Ornela de Giacomo proposes to postpone the topics not covered in the agenda to next week, everyone agrees. 
