Project Management Committee Meeting 12/10/2022 at 14:00h
=========================================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Carsten Fortmann Grote (EU XFEL), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Tobias Richter (ESS), Petra Aulin (ESS) Teodor Ivănoaica (ELI), Emiliano (CERIC-ERIC)

**1. PaNOSC closing event news**
Jordi introduced the objectives of the PANOSC closing event https://indico.esrf.fr/event/66/ and discussed the draft agenda. The objective of the 1.5 day meeting would be to discuss the outcomes of PANOSC and discuss the future of these outcomes after the end of the project.

The first day morning will have talks on post project plans. These talks should have 15 minutes of disucssion time. 

Afternoon sessions on the first day would be targetting external stakeholders providing information on the highlights of PANOSC and EXPANDS. A roundtable will be focused on PANOSC outcomes from the perspective of PaN RIs and PaN users. This roundtable is expected to align the expectations of the PaN community. The last session of the afternoon will have EOSC association representative discussing the sustainability of the EOSC.

Last session of the first day will have a closed Executive board meeting. A dinner will be organized to close the first day. 

Jean-François would like to move the session on Future projects to the 1st day afternoon: So we can talk about INFRAEOSC 2023 01-01 call and hopefully get users to present ideas to apply for funding trough 5 min flash talks. Ideas that were not addressed or impemented during the PANOSC or EXPANDS project could be presented in this session. That would enable informal discussions about that during the evening meal. 

Jean-Francois suggested to change the data transfer post project plans session to data transfer and AAI post project plans.

Thomas informed the EOSC Association meeting is clashing with first day morning of the PaNOSC event, and himself and Jean-Francois may not be able to attend the morning session but Jean-François confirmed that he will attend the EOSC Association General Assembly remotely and that would not be an impediment for him.

Giuseppe informed that EGI have an audit scheduled on 29-30 November so EGI members will not be able to attend the event.

**2. ICRI event news**
Teodor informed that the organization is on track and dinner invitations should be sent to in-person participants. 

**3. Grant Agreement amendment news**
Teodor is expecting to provide replies to the suggestions from the PO either today or tomorrow (12/13 October). 

**4. News from WP leaders & upcoming deliverables **

WP1 :Jordi will send out D1.10 draft in the next days. This deliverable will also  include outcomes from the PANOSC closing event. 

WP3: Tobias informed the WP3 meeting at Soleil has low participation from PANOSC and EXPANDS. Tobias will keep Nicoletta in the loop for the outcomes of the event.

WP4: Emiliano informed the D4.4 Publicly accessible demonstrator is on track. PANOSC Open data search will be linked to RI data analysis services. Fabio has prepared a WP4 to-do list concerning VISA deployment https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hsumjX2xXASFH2UWMlSjGP8ovB2ICTXO0D0qWxig1Yw/edit . All the facilities have deployed VISA and beamline onboarding is in progress. 

WP5: Carsten informed the final WP5 sprint took place a few weeks ago and he was happy with the outcome and will be documenting them in the next weeks. 

WP6: Jean-Francois and Giuseppe informed D6.6 Integration of RIs in EOSC has progressed well. Drafting of D6.5 Report on EOSC Integration is yet to start.
AWS has only one use case from ESRF MX beamlines. 

WP7: D7.3 was submitted. D7.4 will be the upcoming deliverable for WP7.

WP8: D8.3 Teaching material for users is being drafted. Thomas is expecting inputs from Teodor. By next week, Thomas will be able to submit a summary for D8.3  
D8.4 Closing report including summer school will be submitted in the beginning of November 2022.

WP9: WP9 is preparing brochure.D9.4 is yet to be drafted.


**5.News from ExPaNDS**

Juliana and Patrick couldn't attend the meeting but sent an email to Jordi with news from EXPANDS.



![EXPANDS news](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/93371587/196142810-643f4f9e-6628-44f2-9ac6-b0f7d1157e55.png)




**6 News from the EOSC Future**

Jordi will be participating in the EOSC Symsposium and presenting WP5 Training catalogue in EOSC Future. Next EOSC Future review will not have PaN science projects demo. 

**8. Recommendations from Periodic Report**

Jordi will ask WP leaders and partners on updates for #79 and #81. For #80 we are too close to project completion to be useful and Jordi does not plan to complete this recommendation (an effort and budget analysis was completed in January 2022) 


**9. Upcoming events**
Jordi will schedule meeting with Nicoletta and Jean-Francois probably on Tuesday 18 October.

**10.Use Cases Dashboard reminder (~1 min)**
The call for use cases is still open.

**11. AOB**
Thomas informed that ILL-ESS user meeting took place and they had a poster on FAIR data management. 



