Project Management Committee Meeting 06/07/2022 at 13:00h
=========================================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS),  Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Andrew McCluskey (ESS),  Fabio Dall'Antonia (Eu XFEL), Mark Johnson (ILL), Stuart Caunt (ILL), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC) and Teodor Ivănoaica (ELI)


**1. Debrief of meeting with EC and science clusters ([slides](https://cloud.esrf.fr/s/AsE8ztX686JLtcj))**
**2. Preparation of the next INFRA-EOSC calls for 2023/2024**
**3. Debrief of [proposal from EOSC-A](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XoVU7vYidk9NiVqdqpnzFSsrAAcqXq68/view) and meeting with clusters**

Andy started by thanking all the attendees as the meeting starts in this instance earlier as there is a fair amount of information to report regarding future calls, cluster activities and the future of PaNOSC.

Andy shared a [presentation](https://cloud.esrf.fr/s/AsE8ztX686JLtcj) **please note this is not in GitHub Andy** and reported that the clusters met first and then met with DG-RTD and DG-CNECT.

Andy gave some information about future calls, in particular
* EOSC-01-01: all clusters to be involved, with  ~1M€ per cluster to consolidate what has been done so far. Also ~18M€ to fund smaller projects from the community (organise and follow sub-calls). Andy reported that it is understood that 2FTEs would be required to follow-up the subcalls and that is not clear how/what to do if a cluster member wants to apply in a subcall. ESCAPE is understood to be positioning themselves as coordinator, with 1-2 partners per cluster as direct beneficiaries with a strong involvement.

Mark said that the ILL would be more than happy to be one of the partners for this call, to which Andy replied that it would make sense for PaN to have 1 partner from neutron and one for photon. Teodor said that he will discuss this internally at ELI-ERIC and Andy added that any partner willing to take on this will need a senior person taking ~50% of their time + extra hires.

* EOSC-01-02: is about enabling FAIR and EOSC ecosystem. Andy added that Giovanni (ESCAPE) is trying to push someone from CERN to lead this. Andy also said that it is important that the proposal focus on software and not only on teaching/evangelising methodologies. Also, the call is to build on top of EOSC-Synergy. Mark asked whether sub-calls will be available within this project and Andy said that maybe yes.

* EOSC-01-03: is about tracking scientific knowledge. Andy said that the ESRF (and Jean-François in particular) would be interested to do some work on DMPs and PUMA within this call. Mark said that the ILL would like to do more work on PUMA as well.

* INFRASERV: Mark explained that these are a set of calls, with 01-01 about topic oriented access (extending/introducing transnational access), 01-02 does not look interesting and 01-03 being compeltely open and asking for 30% co-funding.

Mark and Andy said that managing subcalls as it is done for example in ATTRACT has proven hard work and Jordi explained that past experience has showed him that while the main project will be finishing issues in the sub-projects may prevent a total closure and that disentangling these kind of possible issues is tricky and time consuming. 

Andy and Mark also clarified that the deadline to submit proposals for all these INFRAEOSC and INFRASERV calls is at the end of March (28/03/2023).

Andy reported that a discussion with DG-RTD and DG-CNECT followed.

Mark also reported a meeting with EOSC-Association on 21/05 which found a bit dissapointing as it seems EOSC-Ass is focused on admin issues and wondered whether changing to being an Observer (2000€ fee) instead of a full member (10000€ fee) may be a better option. Mark also reported a meeting with Ute (Managing director at EOSC-Ass) where he shared the PaN interests.

A short discussion on the EOSC-Ass followed where it was reported that the EOSC and EOSC-Ass are long-term, while individual projects and funding opportunities are small and short term. It was also mentioned that it is still not clear what is the EOSC, what is not without clear scope.

A discussion followed into the post-PaNOSC organisation and need to cooperate. At the moment LEAPS (for photons) and LENS (for neutrons) are the two main organisations, however CERIC and ELI are not members of either. Ornela said that it would be good to set up a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) while Andy said that an alternative option could be for CERIC and ELI to join LEAPS or LENS as observers.

**4. Grant Agreement amendment news**

Jordi reported the feedback received from the Project Officer and the fact that he received the go ahead from ELI (by Teodor) to make one of the small changes requested. Jordi asked about the table and everyone gave the support, so Jordi will re-submit the Grant Agreement amendment on Monday and urged anyone to contact him if there are any concerns.

**5. Pending Deliverables/Milestones**
Jordi reported that WP4-related items (D4.3 and MS13) have been submitted and now
only D7.3 remains to be submitted without a target date. Ornela reported a change on the business model and that the deliverable will be ready by the end of July.

Andrew, Teodor and Nicoletta reported that the Summer School hit 30 participants and that registrations are open until 6th of August.

**6. News from ExPaNDS**

Juliane reported planning a meeting in Burssels to present use cases and Jordi asked whether PaNOSC use cases would be welcome to which Juliane replied YES.

Andy asked about ESOF and Nicoletta replied that participation will be made, with recorded speakers/presentations as the event is on Saturday at 08:00h.

Teodor also reported that the ICRI agenda has been udpated and info about the room available will come soon.

-- MEETING ENDS --