Project Management Committee Meeting 27/04/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF),  Paul Millar (ExPANDS), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Dario Rocella(CERIC-ERIC), , Petra Aulin(ESS), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Tobias Richter (ESS) Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Carsten Fortmann-Grote (EU XFEL) and Stuart Caunt(ILL)


**1. Vote on the draft Grant Agreement amendment**

The PMC voted unanimously to proceed with the grant agreement amendment. Jordi will share the draft with the project officer and seek feedback before starting the process formally in the EC Portal.

**2. Face to face meeting (PaNOSC-ExPaNDS)**

Nicoletta reported that the meeting will take place 14th and 15th of June in Prague, with the 13th afternoon reserved for a visit in ELI facilities (optional). Carten (WP5) won't be able to attend, but everyone else should be able to do so. Carsten will try to find someone to cover for WP5. Nicoletta also explained that a questionnaire will go out to potential attendees that would help to better plan the meeting. Jordi shared his view that if a few more people are required on top of the WP leaders and partner representatives that should be ok, however we should try to keep the number of attendees manageable.
Nicoletta explaiend that a possible draft agenda would be to start with a presentation(s), continue with parallel sessions, converge from them and in the finish with what are the plans and actions for the last six months of project execution. Teodor explained that he will try to put an indico page for the event up and running very soon which will be completed as the agenda is agreed upon. Doru will also share details regarding the recommended accommodation.


**3. Survey from the EOSC Association**

Jordi shared the screen and with help of the attendees complemented the EOSC Association survey draft document. For certain points it was agreed that WP leaders and other attendees of the meeting will write more content on the 27th of May.

**4. Next Deliverables/Milestones updates**

Jordi reported that he needs the help from WP leaders to complete D1.9 and that can ask Jayesh to review the document.
Teodor volunteered to review D3.5
Stuart suggested Fabio reviews D4.3
Thomas and Teodor have concerns about the feasibility of having D8.3 ready in time and a discussion will be organised between them and Andrew. No other WP leader shared any concerns regarding submitting on time.

**5. News from ExPaNDS**

There wasn't any time for this agenda item

**6. News from the EOSC**

There wasn't any time for this agenda item either, however prior to the meeting and by email the following information was shared:

Paul Millar and Rudolf Dimper attended the EOSC Future TCB meeting 26/04/2022:

== Status of the AAI Federation

Critstos K. gave a report on the current status of work on the AAI
Federation.

He described how priority is being given on work to support the PaN
community, including connecting the UmbrellaID AAI to the EOSC AAI
Federation.

Other activity:

 * EOSC Life: should soon start working with them for their connection
      the EOSC AAI Federation

 * ESCAPE: currently developing a missing software component.  This is
      expected to be available in the first half of May

 * Work with the other Science Cluster will proceed in the Summer

In the last meeting of the EOSC AAI Implementation XWG, we had an
initial meeting with the shepherds of the science projects. The
requirement that we have from the science projects are still very high
level, this is why we have decided to organise AAI focused with each
science project.

The work on the EOSC AAI Federation is not a show-stopper for the
majority of the science projects.

I offered some extra infrastructure at DESY to help validate the AAI
integration in the EOSC AAI Federation.  Details to be determined.

Christos expressed concern at an apparent disconnect between the
people working on the AAI Federation and the scientists that would be
using the this federation.  This point was supported by Rudolf.

Christos will organise 1-to-1 calls with the science projects to
gather more specific AAI requirements.  Meanwhile, the science cluster
people working in the science projects should link with Science
Cluster AAI people.


== IT resources for Science Projects

Compute and storage resources for Science Projects can now be
delivered by the INFRAEOSC-07 projects.

There are three ways science projects can submit a request:

 * Via their shepherds from the Technical Alignment with the Science
   Projects WG.

 * Via the co-chairs of the Technical Alignment with the Science
   Projects WG (Jonathan Tedds <tedds@ebi.ac.uk>, Giuseppe La Rocca
   <giuseppe.larocca@egi.eu>).

 * Via the TCB co-chairs (Klaas and Diego).

The three channels are equivalent: the request will be served ASAP.

There is a summary of current requests available from an EOSC-Future
wiki page.

The PaN community has (currently) two project:

  * EU portal for processing Serial Crystallography data.

    This project involve ESRF, DESY and PSI.

  * Time resolved imaging of biological specimen.

    This project involves DESY, ESRF, ILL, PSI.  Contacts are:

        ESRF: Gianluca Santoni (& Rudolf Dimper),
        DESY: Patrick Fuhrmann, Frank Schluenzen (& now, me ,
        ILL: Miguel Gonzalez (& Peolo Mutti),
        PSI: Leonardo Sala (& Alun Ashton).

There are eight other current requests, from ESCAPE, EOSC-Life,
ENVRI-FAIR and SSHOC.

Diego emphasised the importance to “sell” that these resources came
from the 07 projects during the forthcoming EU review, and will need
to collect statistics to identify use.

There some a short discussion on Rudolf's point, where he expressed
concern that these resources are available only through some project
proposal process.  This does not (yet) support his vision of on-demand
computing resources, to support (for example) PaN workflows/analysis
made by people outside of the EU PaN community.


== The Learning Platform and Onboarding of training resources

The EOSC-Future SOB has clarified that the Learning Platform will be
open to all the EOSC users.

However, there are (at least) three activities associated with a
learning platform: authoring new content, accepting/on-boarding new
content (externally authored), "running" content.

It wasn't complete clear whether the SOB statement included all three
activities.  This has an impact as, currently, the plan is to support
authoring only for EOSC-Future members.

More work is needed in defining the scope and the technical decisions
that come from this.


== Demonstrations for the upcoming M12 review (Diego)

There are four demonstrations that are (currently) planned for the next
EU review:

  * Integration of the EOSC-Core services,

    how a provider that is onboarding a service in EOSC can also
    decide to integrate its service with one or more EOSC-Core
    service.

  * EOSC Marketplace Search Engine & User Dashboard,

    the new search engine that will work over different resource types
    and navigation (services, datasets, software, etc. ) and the EOSC
    Marketplace User Dashboard that will facilitate the user
    navigation in the EOSC Resource Catalogue

  * PaNOSC - Serial Crystallography:

    An EU portal for processing Serial Crystallography data.

  * EOSC Platform as enabler of Resources composition - Data Analysis
    on Remote Computing Facilities with Notebooks.

    initial usage of the EOSC interoperability framework
    concept. Evolution of the M6 demonstrator. It includes data
    transfer, access to notebook platforms from the research product
    catalogue. Being developed in collaboration with 07 projects.

It is interesting to note that PaN has such a high visibility within
this review.


== M15 release coordination (Mark D.)

Work is ongoing for the next release of the EOSC-Future software.

== DTNM

The next EOSC-Future TCB meeting will be on 2022-05-03. 

Jean-François Perrin couldn't attend the PMC meeting (this meeting), but shared by email the following:
WP6: UmbrellaID training that is going to take place Tuesday next week (3rd of May)
EOSC Future's SOB meeting: the next review (people involved in EOSC-Future, typically WP6 will probably have a request to be able to demonstrate their achievements by beginning of June).


-- ENDS --

