# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 25/03/2021

### Participants
Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Fabio Dall´Antonia (EuXFEL),  Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Florian Gliksohn (ELI),Thomas Holm (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI),  Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC)

### Agenda

#### 1. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners


### Minutes

#### 1. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
Ornela de Giacomo presents the results of a first rough analysis on the costs collected form the different partners, explaining that there are some differences that cannot be easily related to a scale factor, like a higher number of instruments or beamlines, or higher volume of data. Therefore, further explanations are needed, to understand whether there is a different criterion for the calculation of costs (e.g. what to include in every cost line) or if this difference comes from a different cost of the service, for example, due to its performance.  Ornela de Giacomo shows the differences among the facilities that do not relate with the data volume estimated for 2020 and 2025, the number of beamlines and instruments for 2020 and 2025 and the costs associated for each category of expenses. Teodor Ivanoaica states that ELI has to adjust the numbers of beamlines and the estimated data volume. Ornela de Giacomo says that we have also to clarify if we are referring to beamlines or end-stations in order we can better compare the data among facilities and also that we have to be clear on what is included to the initial set-up and what on yearly costs in order the numbers can be compared properly. As an example of difference, ESS has higher data volume and more beamlines but not the higher personnel costs. Teodor Ivanoaica explains that, in their case, they cannot overlap teams, so they cannot profit at the moment on an optimization of the costs, but that they expect to adjust these costs in the future. Ornela de Giacomo explains that it would be useful to have the Person/Month (PM) costs for every partner in order to better analyse the differences and why they occur. 
Regarding storage, it seems there is no correlation between data capacity and the costs. Thomas Holm explains that for example they included the costs of the control system development in software, as to set-up the infrastructure at the beginning is very cost intensive. Ornela de Giacomo asks why ELI doesn´t have those high costs taking into account they are in a similar situation than ESS and Florian Gliksohn explains that they consider to complete the control system, but not much investment will be needed afterwards.  Jean Francois Perrin says that in general the bigger differences occur between facilities in operation or before operation.
Florian Gliksohn suggests that we could analyse cost by cost in order to better understand the differences, and Ornela de Giacomo highlights that we have also to understand which are the costs´drivers. Thomas Holm suggests to sum all the capital costs and personnel, but Ornela de Giacomo states that it will be not much useful and in this case, for example. it will be difficult to scale the results on number of beamlines/instruments. Teodor Ivanoaica  explains that differences in certain costs´ categories among facilities can occur because facilities use different technologies, and Ornela de Giacomo states that in this case it will useful to have certain information on the different technologies chosen, otherwise we cannot compare. Jean Francois Perrin doesn´t consider that the differences are huge and the ones that occur can be explained and  he adds that maybe we don´t have the capacity to analyse the costs so much in detail. Ornela de Giacomo consider that we still have to check if we consider the same type of things in the same categories and to review together the excel files provided by the partners with costs per category, and Florian Gliksohn agrees. Ornela De Giacomo suggests that, to do it, we have to involve the people that calculated the costs in each facility, and the partners agree on that. Ornela De Giacomo, in any case, will calculate the average of the costs of all the facilities and check if there is a correlation with number of beamlines and storage capacity. Florian suggest to have two meetings in arrow on reviewing the costs and the partners agree. 
