Project Management Committee Meeting 13/04/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Patrick Fuhrmann (ExPANDS), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Dario Rocella(CERIC-ERIC), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Petra Aulin(ESS), Andrew McCluskey (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Fabio D'all Antonia (EU XFEL) and Roberto (CERIC ERIC)


**1. Feedback from PaNOSC EB**
Jordi shared the feedback from the PaNOSC Executive Board meeting which took place on the 1st April 2022 and was chaired by Ornell (CERIC-ERIC). Rudolf informed that the discussions took place in a friendly and collaborative manner, discussions included sustainability of the PaNOSC services and the unspent budget.PMC members can contact Jordi if they wish to see the minutes.

**2. Face to face meeting (PaNOSC-ExPaNDS)**
Nicoletta informed that the organizing committee will meet on 19th April 2022. Event dates, agenda items will be discussed in this first meeting. PMC members are invited to share the list of topics to be discussed in the F2F meeting.


**3.Draft Grant Agreement Amendment**
Jordi received the feedback from ELI, CERIC-ERIC and EGI. The GA amendment text is ready to be submitted. Jordi shared the document with the management mailing list and will ask for formal PMC approval on the next meeting. After this approval, Jordi will share the document with the Project Officer, gather his feedback and then formally request and amendment in the Funding and Tenders Portal.

**4. Observations for the Periodic Report feedback**
Jordi requested feedback on the observations to be submitted to the EC. Ornela suggested collecting more specific details on the clarification requested by the EC on the blueprint recommendation. Jordi has requested more details to the PO and awaiting his feedback.
Jayesh suggested including a sentence on the acknowledgement of the recommendations and assurance that these recommendations will be addressed in the last reporting period.

**5. Survey from the EOSC Association**
Andy represented PaNOSC and EXPANDS at the EOSC association meeting on 8th April 2022 with representation of 40 projects. Andy shared the EOSC Association survey to be filled by 1st May. This survey would identify the Key exploitable results (KER) of PANOSC+EXPANDS to be sustained after the project.
Jordi suggested to share the document on the google drive to collect the inputs with track changes. 

Patrick- what would be the purpose of this survey? Would our inputs will be taken into account for the future workprogramme?
Andy - This survey will be used to learn more about activities carried out in various EOSC projects. Our inputs will be used to update EOSC SRIA document that would further influence the workprogramme.
Andy suggested that PANOSC and EXPANDS should fill in separate survey as they are different EC projects. The feedback from PANOSC and EXPANDS will be discussed in the next PMC. One KER 
Only technical WP KERs can be mentioned in this survey.

Ornela informed that EOSC association has also opened EOSC interoperability framework consultation but this framework doesn't exist. Ornela suggested including horizontal services in the KERs.

Andy informed that EOSC association will have different membership categories with a price range. 

Rudolf suggested to point out the community specific KERs from cluster projects can be mentioned in the survey. After EOSC Future if there are no further flagship projects then EOSC association will probably struggle to implement the EOSC.

Patrick feels that it would be challenging for EOSC association to implement the cluster project outcomes without the involvement of cluster members. Rudolf informed that EOSC association would like to improve communication and interaction with EOSC Future to share community requirements.

**6.News from ExPaNDS**
EXPANDS have to work on the architecture as it has been requested by the commission. PO has asked to distinguish the activities between PANOSC and EXPANDS for the review purposes whilst encouraging the collaboration between two projects.

**7. News from the EOSC**
Rudolf shared some updates from EOSC Future. Hosting of the learning platform (moodle) is being discussed at the moment. WP9 feedback to Rudolf was that the learning platform will be only an internal EOSC Future service. Rudolf is raising this issue to the project coordinator and the technology coordination board.

**8.Recommendations from Periodic Report**
Jordi extracted a list of recommendations from the review report, [created them as issues](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues) and assigned project partner to each of the recommendation. Jordi asked PMC members to contact if this table needs updates.
Nicoletta would like to know if Open Research Europe publications are mandatory or the project partners can continue publishing the documents in zenodo. The stakeholder engagement issue is difficult to measure/quantify due to GDPR regulations.
Jordi suggested to present the feedback from the partners as it is to be more transparent with the EC. 




