PaNOSC WP7 meeting – April 7th

Participants	
Ornela De Giacomo (CERIC), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Teodor Ivanoica (ELI), Giuseope La Rocca (IGI), Angela Zennaro- (CERIC-ERIC), Thomas Holm, Dariusz Brzosko (CERIC), Fabio Dall´Antonia (XFEL)

Task 7.2 costs and metrics of the PaNOSC  - D7.2 Metrics and costs of the PaNOSC  (update on progress)

Ornela De Giacomo opens the meeting presenting the agenda. The first point is related to the feedback received in the last reporting period as 2 of the recommendations are addressed to WP7. The first one is about the business model that is planned to be delivered in the next deliverable. The second one invited the partners to deliver an additional document “Blueprint” in relation to the cost collection. ODG informs everyone that a request to further explain this point has been addressed to the project officer as it is not clear what is expected from us. 
Dariusz Brzosko proposes to have a ¾ pages document/article that explains in more details the methodology adopted for the cost-collection submitted in the previous deliverable. 
Thomas Holm suggests to have a documents that defines the main cost lines without going into details.
Ornela De Giacomo comments that in general it may be a good idea to have an additional document, perhaps an article, on that subject.
Task 7.3 Business models. 
Angela Zennaro presents the results of the meeting with some of the ILO offices in regards to the possible revenue streams for the business model and sustainability plan. One of the options discussed is the possibility to offer trainings on VISA to the industries. 
Thomas Holm  suggest that the payment from industry should be more about Computer resources, cpu usage, not training about VISA. The capacity can be sold, not training on software. Fabio dall´Antonia agrees that courses are not a good way to get revenue. 
Thomas Holm suggests to develop a streamline dedicated to industry that could be run through VISA on specific cases. 
Angela Zennaro informs that she would like to have a meeting with companies that offer analytical services to better understand what can be interesting for them. Also big companies that have research departments. Big Pharma companies especially. 
Ornela de Giacomo asks for clarification about data service streamline for PaNOSC users or in general as this is going outside the mission of the project and the partners. The participants agrees.
Thomas holm states the service would be dedicated only to few companies that outsources this things. 
Theodor Ivanoica highlights that a new ILO has been hire and he will ask him opinions as exercise. Jupiter could be an option, not much VISA according to him, The problem may be a transfer of the data which is huge. Jupiter stone plug-in is one of the most important outcomes of PaNOSC in simulation and can be used for industries.
Ornela De Giacomo presents the Business model canvas suggesting to change some of the key definitions in order to adapt it better to our case. Everyone agrees.
Ornela De Giacomo presents the current situation in terms of PMs and asks the participants to inform us about who would like to additionally contribute to the next deliverable. Theodor Ivanoica and Fabio dall´Antonia are interested to take a more active part. Ornela De Giacomo will set a meeting for those willing to contribute in the upcoming week.
Ornela De Giacomo informs everyone that she will not be available for the planned WP7 meeting that is supposed to take place on May 5th and suggest to move to the following week, on May 12th. Everyone agrees.
