

Task 7.4 Sustainability plan- Meeting with Expands (Sophie Servan)
Angela Zennaro presents the outcome of the meeting with Sophie Servan from ExPaNDS. The meeting focused on the findings from the interviews with WP leaders of PaNOSC and which are the key outcomes that we consider need to be integrated with ExPaNDS and its outcomes.  Main Business models identified have been also presented to ExPaNDS in order to reach a common sustainability strategy for the two projects outcomes. 
Angela Zennaro explains that during the meeting with ExPaNDS it has been highlighted the need the of a common branding on PaN portal, PaN learning platform (that it will maybe be integrated in the portal), PaN website and communication material, and PaN software catalogue, even if for the software catalogue it should be consider if a common branding is really needed. Regarding the data policy and the data management plan, it has been commented with ExPaNDS the importance to have them defined as much as possible in the same way in order to facilitate the users access, in any case it was commented during the meeting that we cannot overcome national data policies and rules, so we will have to align as much as possible just the principles. 
All the common solutions between the two projects were showed to ExPaNDS, highlighting among them that for the AAI –Umbrella there is already a MOU (memorandum of understanding) including most of the facilities and that it would have to be enlarge in the future to all of them and that for software for data transfer it will be a huge advantage to have a common solution. 
Finally it was presented to ExPaNDS the common objectives, agreeing that the main next steps would be starting working on a common branding and align as much as possible the data policies on common principles. It was agreed on this last aspects to start sharing the corresponding documents.  Regarding the Business models, It was agreed that ExPaNDS will analyse them internally, moreover it was explain that feedback from stakeholders such as directors of the facilities is needed, and that the first opportunity will be to present them to the next ERF GA where PaNOSC and ExPaNDS will have a time slot to highlight the strategy related to sustainability. Florian Gliksohn explains that during ERF Ga we can present our strategy and business models options, but not receiving a feedback during the meeting.  Rudolf Dimper says that we can profit from a LEAPS and LENS workshop to have feedback from It managers. 
T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues
Angela Zennaro asks to the partner that still didn´t send their costs estimation when they plan to send it. Teodor Ivanoica says that he just sent them, meanwhile Erwan le Gall that they complete them that they would send them after the meeting, but that they will need some clarification to assure that they assign the costs in the correct way.  Florian Gliksohn says that he will contact Ornela de Giacomo to define how to proceed on the analysis of the costs received by the Partners, Rudolf Dimper asks if two weeks, for the next WP 7 meeting,  will be enough time for Ornela de Giacomo and Florian Gliksohn to analyse the costs received, and that if the next WP 7 meeting should last  2 hours in order to go through all the costs with the partners. Angela Zennaro says that for the moment we will maintain the next W 7 meeting in two weeks and that we will confirm the duration in the next days. 
