Project Management Committee Meeting 20/07/2022 at 14:00h
=========================================================

Participants:  Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Paul Millar (ExPANDS), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Dario Rocella (CERIC-ERIC), Andrew McCluskey (ESS), Luis Maia (Eu XFEL) and Teodor IvÄƒnoaica (ELI)

**1. News about ICRI event and Vote on having a final PaNOSC meeting in November**

Nicoletta provided updates regarding the ICRI 2022 satellite event to be organized by PANOSC. Ornela has been contacting potential speakers from the clusters, EGI and EOSC Association for the session on EOSC Data Federation Sustainability.
This will be an onsite event to be held in Brno and locally hosted by ELI. Teodor will create the indico page for this event. This event will target the attendees of the ICRI 2022. Remote connection to attend this event was also discussed. Teodor mentioned that remote connections for hybrid event is possible, the room can host about 30 participants on site. 
End of August a decision will be taken if the event will be an onsite or a hybrid event. Andy will contact Rafael Abela to attend the satelite event. Nicoletta shared the to-do list for this event https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NKWtj_Iz_zBbEXv-Bn6bYK99V-oQn3Z_KZL4OSbTyl4/edit. 

PANOSC final event can be organized in Prague close to the EOSC Symposium taking place from 14-17 November 2022. Teodor discussed potential venues to organized the PANOSC final event ex. a castle outside city centre Prague
Andy would like to invite other EOSC clusters representatives but not sure if there will be a dedicated timeslot to have them on a panel/talk in the PANOSC final event. Andy has been invited to the ESCAPE TO THE FUTURE Event https://projectescape.eu/events/escape-future.
Andy learnt from EXPANDS PMB about an event to be organized by ESCAPE with participation from PANOSC and it will take place in Brussels. Nicoletta will check with EXPANDS communication workpackage.
Nicoletta suggested to block 17-18 November for final PANOSC event in the calendar possibly to take place in Prague.Jayesh will contact EOSC Future contacts (Sara Garavelli, WP10) to see who is organizing EOSC Symposium to add the PANOSC event as a satellite event.



**2. Debrief meeting LEAPS/LENS working group**

Andy presented and discussed HORIZON-INFRA-2023-EOSC-01-01 call in the LEAPS LENS IT working group meeting and see if the LEAPS and LENS facilities will be interested in participating.
Andy received no or very little feedback from the participants. Andy (through Ana Orti, LEAPS GA member) would ask the LEAPS GA ( 16 September 2022) to approve and endorse ESRF participation in this call to represent LEAPS community.Andy expressed his concerns about lack of engagement in LEAPS WG3 about the EOSC calls. So far ILL, ESS and DESY have expressed interests.
Paul echoed the same concerns in the EOSC Future TCB from PAN participants. 

**3. Pending Deliverables/Milestones due 31/05/2022**

D3.4 	Implementation Report - Teodor will review the draft and provide his comments by Monday 25th July. Andy discussed few missing inputs from ESRF, ILL and XFEL and suggested to add some text for these facilities.
D7.3 	PaN EOSC Business model reference doc - Ornela is currently drafting this document.
D8.3 	Teaching material for users - This deliverable is due in September 2022 after the PANOSC school. 


**4. Grant Agreement amendment news**
The GA text was resubmitted on 11th July and now we are awaiting feedback from the EC project officer.

**5. EXPANDS news**
EXPANDS participated in PARI 2022 event.
FAIR (Self) assessment workshop was organized in July 2022.
VISA workshop will be organized and invitations will be sent early next week.
Video interviews with senior management personnel have been organized on FAIR Data. Interviewees included DESY, ALBA and DIAMOND senior management personnel.

**6.News from the EOSC**
Paul informed that service bundles are being prioritized in the EOSC Future TCB. This would require interoperability of various EOSC services. 
Paul has a first draft of resolving DOIs to the data and he would send out meeting invitation to the PANOSC and EXPANDS members to collect the contributions.




