PaNOSC Project Management Committee Meeting - 23/11/2022
=========================================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh(ESRF), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Ornela De Giacomo(CERIC-ERIC), Fabio Dall'Antonia (EU XFEL), Andrew Mccluskey(ESS), Juliane Marauska(ExPaNDS), Paul Millar (DESY), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI)

1. PaNOSC closing event news

Fabio confirmed EU XFEL's on-site participation. Nicoletta will be dropping a reminder to ILL and ELI. Juliane confirmed on-site participation from ALBA.
Jordi informed that Anca Hineola and Dale Robertson may not be able join the event on 30th November because they may have to attend EOSC Future review meeting.Jordi will communicate exact timeslot to Nicoletta on Thursday. Nicoletta have registration and confirmation from Dale but she hasn't heard back from Anca. Jordi will remind her.
Nicoletta reminded all the speakers to share the slides latest by Monday.

2. Grant Agreement amendment news

Jordi received a notification saying the GA amendment has been accepted. This amendment concerned EGI participation in WP7 and removal of one of the ELI linked third party. Jordi thanked all the concerned beneficiaries for their support.

3. Sustainability sheet from ExPaNDS to fill

Jordi shared the sustainability sheets of PaN EOSC outcomes https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O6GdwnJ4vTpT6-2_wsz-M_gdtYjF34aji2Pb2YxXUDU/edit
Each project partner should go through this document and fill this sheet for their respective research infrastructure.
Jordi suggested to prioritize the PANOSC deliverables. Jean-Francois would like to postpone the deadline to fill in this document by mid-December. As the deadline to submit the final PANOSC report is end of January, Jordi would like ensure submission of all the deliverables on milestones.

4. News from WP leaders & upcoming deliverables

- D1.10 Report of annual workshop 4:  Jordi reminded project partners to fill in contribution concerning their respective WP in the draft google doc (link can be reshared if required by contacting Jordi)

- M5 Final Annual report: Jordi reminded project partners about the final project report to be submitted. This report will have technical and financial parts. For the technical part the input should be filled (link for the document can be reshared if required by contacting Jordi)
whereas for financial part, the admin/finance contacts have been informed. The deadline for this report is 29 January 2023.

- D4.4 Publicly accessible demonstrator: Fabio will be having a meeting this week with WP members and should be able to provide a draft for review next week.
- D6.5 Report on EOSC Integration: Jean-Francois informed that drafting is in progress and draft would be sent for review next week. Ornela is happy to review the document.
- D6.6 Integration of RIs in EOSC: Giuseppe has submitted the draft to Jordi and Andy to be reviewed. 
- D7.4 PaN EOSC Sustainability Plan: Ornela should be able to send in the draft to review next week. Jean-Francois is happy to review the docuemnt.
- D8.4 Closing report including summer school: Andrew is working on this draft and should be able to submit the document next week.
- D9.4 Dissemination and Outreach activities: Nicoletta confirmed that the document is almost finalised, would be submitted after the closing event.Jordi will be able to review this document.


5. Final Report: Jordi reminded participants about the final report due in January 2023. Nicoletta would like to have feedback from project partners on the exploitation activities of PaNOSC outcomes.

6. News from ExPaNDS: Juliane informed that EXPANDS is planning the final event at DESY in 2023. Besides that Olivier gave a presentation at the EOSC Symposium in October 2023.

7. News from the EOSC Future: Jordi provided feedback from EOSC Symposium. This event had about 200 participants. Some of the sessions were bit too political and not really useful. There were some interesting talks from Roche, Harvard and a Dutch funding agency. 

8. AOB: Andy and Sophie are attending a cluster meeting in Brussels on INFRAEOSC01-01-2023 proposal preparation. 
 

