
Project Management Committee Meeting 19/05/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Patrick Fuhrmann (ExPANDS),  Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Dario Rocella (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Thomas Rod Holm (ESS), Petra Aulin (ESS), Andrew McCluskey(ESS), Teodor Fabio Dall'Antonia (Eu XFEL), and Erwan le Gall (ILL)

**1. Face to face meeting (PaNOSC-ExPANDS)**
Petra requested more details on who should be attending the event. Teodor and Jordi explained that all the WP leads and active WP contributors are expected to attend in person. Max number of participants for the event is 50 (25 for PaNOSC and 25 for EXPANDS). 
Nicoletta [shared the inputs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1f9sxzX8af0w4j9r8rmoWOVC8pniDyk9_fa9IEsn27ls/edit#gid=0) collected to develop the agenda of the event. WP leads are expected to provide suggestions on how to structure the event agenda i.e individual timeslots.
The indico page agenda will then be updated accordingly.

**2. PaNOSC Summer School**
Andrew presented the current status of summer school organizations. Slides are available on [this link](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Meetings/Project%20Management%20Committee/2022-05-18-PMC/wp8%20summer%20school%20planning.pptx). 

Outstanding questions on the organization

1.Is there budget within PaNOSC for the summer school?
Thomas and Teodor would like to know if we can support the students. Jordi suggested to contact the ESS/ELI EU officer. Petra asked if there is a specific budget allocated to school organization. Jordi informed that ESS can utilize the unspent budget and event budget. 
Jordi proposed to contact the EC project officer in case necessary. Dario suggested CERIC-ERIC won't be able to utilize all the travel budget and this unspent budget could be used for school organization.
Teodor informed that accommodation costs could be about 500 euros/participant for accommodation and catering for a 4-day event. Jayesh informed that organization costs (accommodation and catering) can be covered from PaNOSC budget and students can take care of their own travel arrangements.
Thomas will check the cost eligibility with ESS EU officer.

2. Is there support from WP9 for advertisement and engagement?
Nicolleta confirmed that WP9 can help with the advertisment but she would like to have the necessary content well in advance and other project partners should also help with the dissemination. 
Main organizers should take care of the event indico page. Teodor will schedule a meeting with WP8 and WP9 next week on Wednesday. 

3. Is there PaNOSC computing resourse available to use during the summer school event?
Andrew would like to use AWS computing resources. Jean-Francois discussed that AWS resources from PANOSC can be used however ESS would need to configure the machines according to the needs of the school programme.
Jean-Francois suggested to use VISA instances of one of the project partners.

5. Are there limitations on participants (i.e. do they need to come from EU nations)?
Jayesh replied that there is no limitation on the participants and their country of origine. However, we should have a sufficiently large distribution across EU countries. Jordi pointed out that we should also keep an eye on the gender balance while selecting the participants.

7. Who will present at the tool session?
Nicoletta suggested Axel Bocciarelli and Loic Huder could help with H5 web.

Teodor discussed multiple possibilities of social events for students. Teodor also informed that ELI-ALPS director has very kindly made the facility available for PaNOSC event. 

**3.AOB**
Jordi informed that the general event at the end of the project would be organized somewhere in mid-october along with ICRI 2022. 




