Project Management Committee Meeting 09/11/2022 at 14:00h
=========================================================

Participants: Jordi (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Carsten (EU XFEL),  Andrew (ESS), Fabio (EU XFEL), Erwan (ILL), Juliane (ExPaNDS) and Paul (ExPaNDS)

Andy requested to add a new item to discuss a sustainability-focused document from ExPaNDS.

**1. [PaNOSC closing event](https://indico.esrf.fr/event/66/) news**

The attendees discussed the list of registered people (over 90 at the time, with more than 50% attending in person). It was agreed that Nicoletta will double check the registration status of speakers and that a meeting with Jordi, Andy and Nicoletta will be planned for Monday 14/11 to provide instructions to the speakers about the event and their participation.

Fabio introduced the possibility to have a satellite meeting / paralel meeting for WP4 and post-project activities linked to data analysis. He will confirm whether this needs to be added to the agenda or not.

Nicoletta also raised the point of speakers not answering our requests to participate in some of the sections (e.g. sustainability) and Andy will support her to reach out to them.


**2. Grant Agreement amendment news**

Jordi reported further changes to the GA amendment requested by the EC, feedback and changes implemented by EGI and Jordi resubmitting this week. Jordi shared his hopes that this time the amendment will go through and will be accepted (before the project finishes)

**EXTRA ITEM. ExPaNDS sustainability document**
Andy shared a document and ask all PaNOSC participants to contribute with their documents. The document itself contains all the key outcomes of ExPaNDS and lists for each one:
* Solution / description
* Targe Audience / who benefits
* Benefits for the audience
* Comptetitor / similar toosl or services
* Technology readiness / is it in production, pilot, etc?
* Accessibility / where to find it and who can access it
* License
* Documentation
* EOSC integration status / link to EOSC Portal if onboarded
* Short-term maintenance / hosting infrastructure + personel in charge 
* Plans for long-term sustainability
* Feedback mechanisim
* Exploitability potential
* etc.

**3. News from WP leaders & upcoming deliverables**

WP1 :Jordi reminded all WP leaders to contribute to D1.10, so this can be completed including a report on actions and achievements of each WP. On top of that, Jordi clarified to Nicoletta what he would like to have from the final event into the document. Jordi said that given that the deliverable includes information regarding the final event it will be late (expected submission before 15th December).

WP2: Andy reported two papers on DMPs being written. One more theorical (by Heike) and another one more about practical implementation (by Andy and others) which should be submitted before 15/12/2022.

WP3: Tobias was absent. Fabio reported a search API video.

WP4: Fabio reported work ongoing for the demonstrator deliverable which will include VISA and the feature to download data from the Open Search Portal. Erwan added that ILL will contribute to the effort and Andy asked whether XFEL can allow open data to be downloable wihout having to send first an email. 

WP5: Carsten reported no issues. He is especting the deliverables to be on time with Mads doing the talk in the final event.

WP6: Jean-Francois reported that D6.6 is ready for review and will be emailed to Jordi/Andy very shortly. Regarding D6.5 there is a risk of delay. He also noted less engagement from partners as the project is nearing the end of its life. Jean-François highlighted UmbrellaId link to to EOSC Federation AAI (it can now add EduGain and ORCId as IDP).

WP7: Ornela was absent. No news. Jordi shared his concerns regarding the status of the final deliverable as no one of the attendees had any news to share.

WP8: Andrew reportred that D8.3 was submitted and that he is writting D8.4. Andy reported that someone at SOLEIL show interest within LEAPS for using pan-learning.org and that this should be explored. Andy will try to reach out to that person.

WP9: Nicoletta reported loads of activity linked to the final event, final brochure and an article released on PaNOSC in European Dissemination dot EU (https://edition.pagesuite-professional.co.uk/html5/reader/production/default.aspx?pubname=&edid=63c07d84-edb1-462d-aaaf-4b6627bcb5d9&pnum=62).


**4.News from ExPaNDS**

Juliane shared that the final event for ExPaNDS will be 23rd and 24th of January 2023.


**5 News from the EOSC Future**

Jordi reported EOSC Future participation in the EOSC Symposium next week, work at the ESRF to deploy VISA in production for a beamline (within the scope of the PaN Science Projects) and the M18 review taking place very soon (during the PaNOSC final event). Jean-François added that there is plenty of activity related to the review and that the EOSC has as 3 core services (AAI, Helpdesk and Monitoring), however he is unsure about the Hekpdesk sustainability and how Data Transfer will be handled within the EOSC.

-- Meeting Ends --



