**Project Management Committee Meeting 14/09/2022 at 14:00h**
=================================================================

**Participants: Carsten (Eu XFEL), Jordi (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Erwan le Gall (ILL), Fabio D'all Antonia (Eu XFEL), Tobias (ESS) and Juliane Marauska (EXPANDS)**


1. PaNOSC closing event - where and when?

A brief discussion among the attendees resulted in the agreement that the meeting should be open to all that collaborated in PaNOSC and one of the main topics should be post-project collaboration. 1 day and a half or two days may be enough for this.

Regarding the location it was agreed that organising the event in Brussels would be more complicated, so a partner organising the event on their site was preferred. Fabio and Carsten will inverstigate whether XFEL can organise it in Hamburg, with Grenoble (ESRF) being the fallback option. Carsten, Fabio, Jordi and Andy will meet separately to continue this discussion.

Regarding the dates for the event, the week 44 (31/10 to 04/11) and week 46 (14/11 to 18/11) were discarded. Nicoletta offered herself to send a doodle to ask people about their availability. A good view of what are the best dates should be available by 21/09. **All WP leaders must share the doodle with the WP contributors as we would like everyone in PaNOSC attending**


2. Grant Agreement amendment news

Jordi has submitted the GA amendment and is now awaiting feedback. No futher news to share.

3.Pending Deliverables/Milestones until end of the project

WP1 deliverable (D1.10) and milestone (M5) are related. Jordi does not expect any issues completing them, however he will require support from all WP leaders.

D4.4 - Fabio reported that work at XFEL has started on this. Jordi reminded Fabio that this deliverable being a demostrator the important thing is to have the software and the source code. The document can be a very short document that provides both URLs and a couple of screenshots.

D5.4 Carsten reported work taking place, including plans to have something running on the command line and not Jupyter. Jordi looked in the EU portal and the submitted proposal the exact wording for the deliverable and explained that command line does not go against what we committed to deliver. The important thing is that the deliverable is useful and does what it should be doing.

WP6 deliverables (D6.5 and D6.6), Jean-François reported work on both areas, one deliverable led by EGI and not expecting any issues completing these two reports.

D7.3 PaN EOSC Business model reference doc - Jordi reported that Ornela shared a document and that this needs further work before being submitted. Jordi also pointed out that WP7 should start focusing ASAP on the final deliverable (D7.4).

D8.3 Teaching material for users - Jordi said that with the Summer School taking place right now that should be ready very soon.

D9.4 - Nicoletta does not expect issues to deliver this on time.


4. Recommendations from Periodic Report

Tobias has a doubt about [#86](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/86) and the wording not being clear. Jordi agreed to look at it into detail. It is not well understood if a use case should be written up or whether just ensuring tha the search service provides up-to-date data once available is enough.

Jordi reminded everyone that the recommendations should be addressed and we will need to explain what we have done about them in the final report.

5. News from ExPaNDS

Juliane reported that the ExPaNDS meeting in Brussels (November 2022) has been cancelled and that instead a meeting will take place 23rd and 24th of January 2023. That will be followed by the XFEL user meeting (25/01) and DESY user meeting (26-27/01).

6. News from the EOSC

Jordi and Jean-François reported the upcoming meeting in Seville (Spain) at the end of September and that work is ongoing to address the recommendations from the last report.

7. News from WP leaders

WP3 - Tobias reported that a WP3 workshop organised at Soleil will take place 2nd and 3rd of November jointly with ExPaNDS.

WP5 - Carsten reported a planned sprint last week of september and first week of october in order to complete the work for the last deliverables. Carsten also confirmed that the participation of ESRF staff in the WP is satisfactory.

Erwan (ILL) had nothing to add.

WP5 - Fabio rporeted a new version of VISA allowing to extend the life of VMs and a new way to include software as the new main features. He also reported a VISA conference organsied by Soleil on Friday.

WP6 - Jean-François reproted taht VISA has been used at the ESRF for training and it works very well. The WP6 team is working on their final deliverables and final integration between UmbrellaId and EOSC Future AAI will take place in November.

WP9 - Nicoletta reminded everyone of the Brno event (ICRI) which will be remote.

AOB

Jordi said that Andy reported to him the upcoming EOSC Summit: there will be a 3h session dedicated to the science clusters and how they are aligning. We need to propose topics by next week. Andy is liaising with the EOSC Summit organisers on behalf of the clusters. Jordi asked the attendees to contact Andy to propose topics.




