Project Management Committee Meeting 08/03/2022
===============================================

Attendees: Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Ornela (CERIC), Jean-Fran√ßois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Angela (CERIC), Juncheng (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Petra (ESS), Teodor (ELI), Thomas (ESS), Jayesh (ESRF), Giuseppe (EGI) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)

**1. Periodic Report feedback**

Jordi reported the feedback obtained from the EC regarding the periodic report submitted in January. The minor feedback must be addressed and the report resubmitted within 15 days (i.e. no later than 15/03).
In particular, the feedback affects ESS (deviations) and EGI (financial info and deviations). Jordi also took the opportunity to announce that an Executive Board meeting is planned for 1st of April and that an invitation has been shared with the EB members. Jordi explained that not all members were available and the chosen date means that Jonathan (ESS) will not be available. Thomas replied that he will hold internal conversations at ESS to check who can best replace Jonathan.

**2. Presentation**
Ornela shared a presentation [link to the presentation in GitHub] and explained what other science clusters are doing, the fact that we must show the value that the outcomes of PaNOSC produce to the different stakeholders (from users to the European Commission) and a draft questionnaire for users.
