# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 08/04/2021

### Participants
  
Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Fabio Dall´Antonia (EuXFEL),  Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Florian Gliksohn (ELI),Thomas Holm (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Erwan Le Gall (ILL), Eric Pellegrini (ILL), Jean Francois Perrin (ILL), Roberto Pugliese (CERIC), Jesper Rude Selknaes (ESS), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC).

### Agenda

#### 1. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners

### Minutes
Ornela de Giacomo shows different representations of the costs collected by the partners, stating that it´s not clear which are the drivers of the costs. She shows as example some outliers, that are hard to justify based on the parameters provided (e.g. volume of data produced, number of instruments, beamlines or end-stations). She also shows that there is no clear correlation between the costs and these parameters. The reasons for this differences should be explained in some way: either there is a difference in the quality or performance (e.g. LAN) so a different cost is associated, or a cost item was calculated taking into account different criteria. For example, in “assigning metadata to data” ESS included the cost of producing e-logbooks, because of the role they play in capturing the metadata, while the other partners have not included these costs in this cost line or anywhere else. The proposal is to check the costs templates and discuss what partners considered in each cost item, in order to justify the differences in the costs. Teodor Ivanoaica proposes to focus just on the FAIR layer (meaning to consider just the additional costs- to the usual one for an infrastructure to manage the data produced- due to produce and maintain the data FAIR). Ornela de Giacomo states that this may not be possible at this stage, since when the template design was discussed, it was decided to separate the costs as “facility operation” and EOSC, focusing on the reuse. It is impossible to extract at this point the costs related to FAIR practices, also because some facilities like ESS work on FAIR by design, therefore there is no incremental cost due to FAIR. Rudolf Dimper proposes to decide which kind of questions we want to answer related to the sustainability. Ornela states that is important to identify the cost drivers. It would be important, within certain conditions, to be able to define a range of costs for a certain type of infrastructure e.g. with a certain number of instruments, with a certain data volume produced, etc. Teodor and Jean-Francois explain that one of the main cost drivers is the IT strategy, this is why data do not show correlation with other parameters, but we don’t need that degree of detail. Ornela highlights that even though the cost exercise is an approximation, we should still be able to justify some differences between costs in infrastructures for instance because they have a different IT strategy, and provide complementary information. 
Florian proposes that partners review line by line on the categories of the costs template and add some comments, as for example technology choices can make a considerable difference between different infrastructures. All the partners agree.  Ornela says that this was already proposed by Thomas and agreed upon several months ago. Currently, ESS has provided comments for each category, and ESRF partially. In any case Teodor states that it´s correct to provide comments on each category to check on the different strategies, but that doesn´t mean that they will reflect necessary on each new facility that want to do the same. Thomas highlights some aspects are not clear for some categories and we have to review some definition of the categories.  All partners agree. 
Ornela de Giacomo explains also that the costs of CERIC are low as it has been considered just the fraction of the beamlines of Elettra that are accessible via CERIC. Therefore, the cost was estimated as a percentage of the full cost, proportional to the time assigned to CERIC. Roberto confirms.
Fabio dell´Antonia states that they will also provide the data for the costs, they are waiting for approval. Jean Francois Perrin asks to have the Power Point that Ornela de Giacomo showed with the comparison among the costs of different categories of the research infrastructures, Ornela de Giacomo will send it.

### Actions 

- [ ]	Provide comments on what was considered/included for each cost category, in time to be analysed for next meeting (deadline next week, 12th-18th of April). All partners
- [x] Send the slides with the analysis on the costs provided by the partners. Ornela
- [ ]	Provide the costs and comments for XFEL. Fabio Dall'Antonia
- [x]	Review the definition of the categories, to be commented with all partners during the next meeting. Ornela de Giacomo

