Project Management Committee Meeting 22/06/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Paul Millar (EXPANDS), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS),  Dario Rocella (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC-ERIC), Petra Aulin (ESS), Tobias Richter (ESS),  Fabio Dall'Antonia (Eu XFEL), Erwan Le Gall (ILL) and Teodor Ivănoaica (ELI)

**1. Debrief from face to face meeting (max. 15 minutes)**

Jordi thanked Teodor and all the organisers and Teodor added that many in ELI contributed to the success. Jordi liked the session talking about downloading data from a DOI and ask the attendees about their feedback. Jean-François and Teodor said there are interesting concepts in that session and that they will be back to Paul. Paul added that it was great to miss and that he was happy that feedback was received for PaNET.

**2. Pending Deliverables/Milestones**
Jordi reported that D8.3 it is clear that will be delivered in September while WP4-related items (D4.3 and MS13) should be ready in a few days with target delivery date of first week of July. Ornela wasn't present to report on progress with D7.3.
Tobias reported a writting session for D3.4 (due end of July) and a discussion about how to submit it while Jordi is on leave followed. 

**3. Grant Agreement amendment news**

Jordi reported that the Grant Agreement amendment has been submitted to the EU and it is on their hands. Jordi explained that he understood that the PO will have a look before it moves into other areas of the EU for review. Dario added that we should get an answer within 45 days

**4. PMC meetings during summer period**
It was agreed to continue with the planned schedule: 06/07, 20/07, 03/08 and 17/08.

**5. News from WP leaders**

WP6: Jean-François reported work trying to deploy VISA and using containers to provide software through CVFS. At the ESRF feedback is being obtained from two beamlines. **Jean-François highlighted to everyone that scientists often use software not know / not standard that IT is not aware of and it does take time to have VISA working with everything scientist needs, so it is important to engage with scientists early.**

WP9: Nicoletta reported issues with the PaNOSC participation at ESOF that sh is trying to solve, as some speakers have droped out. Teodor said that ExPaNDS and PaNOSC will be presented at the EGI conference (19-23 September) and Petra said that so far the Summer School has only 14 registrants (out of 30 spaces), so she asked everyone to raise awareness about this event.

WP4: Fabio reported meeting yesterday and progress with deploying VISA at CERIC. He also reported progress with the overdue deliverable (which should be ready in the next few days).

WP3: Andy asked whether there is an agreement on data portal functionality and Tobias replied that a discussion on the topic has started without converging yet.

WP2: Andy reported that work with DMPs in the user portal is progressing at the ESRF and Teodor reported progress with DMPs at ELI as well. Speakers will be contacted once this is confirmed.

Erwan reported that Data Policy changes at ELI have been presented to their Science Advisory Committee and that DMPs seem difficult to explain to scientists

**6. Last PaNOSC conference @ ICRI (~ 18/10/2022)**

Teodor reported an invite received from the organisers and that he expects very soon to be able to confirm 100% our participation. Teodor explaiend that the meeting site at ICRI will have limited capacity (~35) and suggested a one-day event in Prague (17/10) followed by ICRI (18/10). The attendees seem to favour this approach with no further face-to-face meetings.

-- MEETING ENDS --