Project Management Committee Meeting 30/03/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Carsten Formann Grote, Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Patrick Fuhrmann (ExPANDS), Juliane Marauska (ExPANDS), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC ERIC)
Nicoletta Carboni (CERIC-ERIC), Petra Aulin(ESS), Tobias Richter (ESS), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Fabio D'all Antonia (EU XFEL) and Roberto (CERIC ERIC)

**1.Periodic report update**
Jordi informed the key outcomes of the project review report. Overall the project activities have been positively reviewed. 
12-13 minor recommendations will need to be addressed. Jordi is creating [issues in Github](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues) for each of the recommendations. Ornela asked why so many when the document lists less items and Jordi explained that some of the recommendations can be split up (e.g. Update KPI Framework _and_ Risk Registry).
Patrick asked whether is something for ExPaNDS to learn and Jordi suggested ExPANDS members that any minor deviations concerning finances without explanations (in section 5 of the periodic report) will result into periodic report rejection and the finance related comments will need to be addressed within 15 days. Jordi also explained that we had a Reporting Period Review based only on the Periodic Report submitted and the evaluation of the deliverables submitted and milestones ticked as achieved (without a meeting). As of today, no meeting is planned for the last review of the project, however if the EC requests it, a review with a meeting could take place.

**2. Deliverable D3.3 Catalogue service**
Deliverable was submitted on time and available to refer under [submitted deliverables folder of PaNOSC github](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Deliverables/D3.3%20Catalog%20Service).

**3. Grant Amendment draft**
 This amendment concerns 
 -  ELI DC became ELI eric can no longer have a linked third party (ELI NP) in the project, therefore this needs to be formalised and the corresponding resources will be absorbed by ELI ERIC (ELI ERIC still has to clarify the details of this point).
 -  EGI will participate in WP7, and both ELI and CERIC-ERIC will provide 1 PM each to EGI to participate in WP7 (around 11 Kâ‚¬ in total) 
 Jordi has received feedback from concerned parties and he will be updating the GA draft. Even though the amendment draft is not approved yet Jordi expects it to be approved and thinks that EGI can already contribute in WP7.
 PaNOSC executive board meeting is scheduled on Friday 1st April 2022. Jordi briefly discussed slides for this meeting. 
 
 **4. PANOSC + EXPANDS face to face meeting**

This joint meeting is expected to be organized in June/July 2022 and to be hosted by ELI ERIC. Jordi would like to have members from EXPANDS and PANOSC to be on the organization team. 
 Organization team members that volunteered:
 PANOSC - Jordi (ESRF), Teodor (ELI), Nicoletta (CERIC) and Ornela (CERIC)
 EXPANDS - Kat (Diamond), Juliane (DESY) and Patrick (DESY)
 Jordi suggested to schedule a meeting every week or two. Nicoletta would organize this meeting.
 Another final joint event PaNOSC+EXPANDS could be organized around October 2022 (just before the project finishes). 
 
 **5. News from EXPANDS**
 - Juliane is replacing Sophie as project manager. 
 - Deliverables: D4.4 was submitted, D3.4 is work in progress and is on schedule. Technical architecture is to be updated. D2.7 is an upcoming deliverable. 
 
 **6. News from EOSC**
 - EOSC Association GA is scheduled at the end of May 2022 in Brussels. J-F Perrin to represent ESRF.
 - EOSC association recruitments in progress, could possibly mean additional activities and workload for EOSC association members.
 - RI EOSC workprogramme is under discussion for 2023-24, there will be some calls for cluster projects.
 - EOSC future is heavily underspending.Rudolf will be replaced by J-F Perrin at the technical coordination board of EOSC Future. Jordi and Jayesh will join other tasks. 
 - Ornela informed that an interoperability framework webinar was organized by EOSC Future. PANOSC members could provide feedback to the survey on interoperability framework https://eosc-portal.eu/eosc-interoperability-framework-consultation.
 - ESFRI Science clusters call in the EOSC workprogramme would be of interest for EXPANDS. Rudolf informed that EOSC association is also endorsing the clusters call. CNRS-LAPP could possibly lead the joint clusters project. Two partners per clusters will participate in the proposal.
  
**7. ICRI 2022 (17-21 October 2022) and Science Summit UNGA (September 2022)
- ICRI 2022 is a prestigious RI conference and has satellite event abstract submission is 31 March 2022. PANOSC could possibly organize a satellite event and could be co-located with PANOSC+EXPANDS symposium.
- Any RI related topics could be considered relavant for satellite event. 
- Nicoletta suggested to consider an event structure similar that of the previous satellite events, this event could provide a great visibility to PANOSC and EXPANDS. 
- Patrick could help Nicoletta with the abstract preparation. Patrick suggested to explore Nicoletta to explore if the organizers will be willing to extend deadine.
- Availability of project partners is uncertain for the satellite event. 
- Jordi suggested to request extension of deadline and if the request is refused, we should go ahead and submit the abstract. 
- Jean-Francois recommended to submit abstract for ICRI to improve PANOSC visibility. 

**8. WP updates**
- WP8 : Andrew is replacing Stella as the WP lead. Jordi will add Andrew to the PMC mailing list. Thomas informed that they are organizing summer school in August 2022 with Teodor.
- WP5 : Carsten informed that WP5 activities are on track and asked how to submit a software package in the portal. Jordi replied that will investigate this and if needed ask our Project Officer.
- WP4: Fabio informed that D4.3 and MS 13 are on track. Fabio will discuss further with Andy what is expected in MS13 data analysis services.
- WP6: The cloud procurement with OCRE has been completed and ESRF should have amazon cloud access soon. ESS and ELI would be the users of these cloud services. 

 
 
 
